Pastor Paseka 'Mboro' Motsoeneng has described his "Bedroom Sunday" service, where he prayed for sex-starved couples and visited their homes to witness the impact his prayer apparently had on their sex lives, as a resounding success. Mboro decided to hold a special service at his church, Incredible Happenings yesterday after Soweto TV canned an episode of his show, where he asked a couple who was having sexual difficulties to touch each other after he prayed for them It was then that Mboro decided that he needed to help more couples, who were facing sexual challenges in their marriages. Speaking to TshisaLIVE on Monday, Mboro said the service was such a success he plans to hold more services this weekend. "Yesterday's service was amazing, it was a celebration of  bedroom testimonies and more healings," he said, Mboro said that two couples who were having problems with being intimate testified at the service about the changes they have experienced. "I prayed for a certain couple on Saturday preparing for Sunday's service and on the day they went onto stage to testify, because the wife no longer had sexual feelings for her husband and they testified about the changes in their marriage since I have been praying for them," he said. Mboro said the husband testified that his wife was now energetic in bed, while the wife said that if it wasn't for Mboro she would have divorced her husband. He said he also prayed for a couple who did not have sex for over one year because the man had erectile problems. "For the first time after a long time without having sex, the husband got an erection and  they shared a bed together and made love." Mboro said couples should talk openly to each other about sex and declare their love for each other. The pastor said because of  the positive response he's received from people he'd decided to extend the service to this coming Friday and Sunday. "I'm getting floods of calls and numbers of people who are coming, very successful people that you will never think have a problem. I've never had any publicity that gave me such a positive response like this," Mboro said.