Internet TV service Showmax has launched an app for the world’s best-selling gaming console, Sony’s PlayStation 4. This means PS4 and PS4 Pro owners who have connected their consoles to the internet can watch on-demand TV shows and movies in just a few easy steps, with no need to buy new equipment. The app is available only in South Africa. Showmax is an internet TV service with a huge catalogue of popular series and movies available on demand with no ads, including weekly episodes of fresh new shows express from the US, such as Mr Robot season 3 and South Park season 21; series that come first and only to Showmax, such as horror anthology Channel Zero; and fan favourites such as The Big Bang Theory, the full box set of Friends and all seven seasons of Game of Thrones. Subscribers to the service, which costs R99 per month for unlimited viewing, have the option to watch Showmax using a wide variety of devices that now includes the PS4. Mario Dos Santos, CEO of Ster-Kinekor Entertainment, which distributes the PlayStation in South Africa, said: “Partnering with Showmax’s great internet TV service means we can now offer PS4 fans in South Africa the option of watching world-class TV shows and movies directly on their consoles. With more content and versatility, it’s another reason to make the PS4 the centre of your home entertainment set-up.” Each Showmax account allows for viewing different shows on two different devices simultaneously. Showmax’s smartphone and tablet apps also support downloads, so subscribers can start watching on their PS4 and then continue watching even when on the move and not connected to the internet. Showmax Africa head Chris Savides said: “Our apps team has a very simple mandate: give customers the choice to watch Showmax however and whenever works best for them. By adding the app for the PS4, the world’s best-selling gaming console, we’re aiming to broaden the appeal of Showmax and get even more people using our service.” The Showmax app for the PS4 also supports bandwidth capping, allowing subscribers to limit the amount of data used to watch shows and movies. Bandwidth capping works by reducing video quality, meaning less data is consumed. This article was paid for by Showmax.