Bafana's senior players worked their socks off adapting to Baxter's game plan for a fine, first competitive victory against Nigeria, a 2-0 win in Saturday's 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in Uyo.After gruelling travel and a bruising encounter, Baxter is likely to rest everyone fielded against the Super Eagles and might draft a few young players into his squad to face Zambia."We can get carried away as we want. This was a good performance. But, yeah, the players are asking me: 'How good can this team be?' And I'm like: 'Hey, whoa, don't let it go to your heads.' And if it had been a poorer performance I wouldn't let it go to my heart."In the Zambia game I want to play everybody who didn't play. I think we've got to."Play all the kids. But I think it's a performance against Nigeria that gives great hope."Baxter rated the win as his best match internationally ."I said to the players after the game: 'I've drawn 1-1 in Germany with Finland.' I said: 'I took a third-string South Africa to the [Concacaf Gold Cup] in the US, and beat Mexico. Those two have been the most satisfactory performances I've had at national level, until tonight.'"Because it was in the back yard of a team we could never beat. I know how much that means to everybody back home," said Baxter."I've never had so many text messages after a game. I think there are about 50 and I don't know how I'm going to answer them all - I think I'll be up until midnight trying to."Bafana's only other Nigeria win also came under Baxter, in a friendly at Ellis Park in 2004."I have to admit, I wasn't so confident when I started the week because I'm thinking: 'They've been training in France for three weeks and we've got four sessions, and we've got a few injuries and this is going to be tough'," Baxter said. "But the more I did my research on Nigeria, the more I thought: 'We can find some holes here.'"And then in the very first session, the players were flying. And I thought: 'We've definitely got a chance'." - TMG Digital