It's become somewhat of a tradition for South Africans to gather around the telly come Comrades Sunday. We watch in awe as the elite runners zoom past the big five hills and push themselves to earn the coveted top 10 gold medals.After that it's really about getting comfy on your couch with Chicken Licken wings and a two- litre as you watch ordinary folks squeeze everything out of their bodies for the tiniest medal.Afterwards the runners are celebrated and called hereos. For 12 painful hours (or less if they're blessed) they've conquered the road, their minds have wavered and recovered and their bodies have been on the brink of collapse. They're Ultimate Humans. And so is the support.This is for those supporters.You might have been watching the race on and off for most of last Sunday, but we have been through this journey for a year.Yup, for the past year I've been single. Friday night braais? What are those? Anything that ends after 8pm is a no-go. Hello, it's either a "long run" or a race and going to bed later will affect the Ultimate Human's performance.If you're lucky enough to have your Ultimate Human home and still awake past 8pm, you're likely to be confronted by the back of their heads and a bright screen locked onto the Strava [running] app on their phone. Their thumbs scroll past every runner, analyse their hills, gradients (I think hills and gradients may be the same thing), pace and how many thumbs up they got.You're suddenly part of a new group of friends and all of them are Ultimate Humans or know Ultimate Human stories.Conversation is limited. As are carbs. The Ultimate Humans are discussing black toenails, runny stomachs and bloody nipples. #Bestlifethings!It's two weeks before Comrades and your Ultimate Human is a hypochondriac. A little cough could mean bronchitis and deserves an emergency call to all the other Ultimate Humans for advice. The phones buzz with the Ultimate Human WhatsApp group on full alert.Your generic "How was your day?" is returned with a snort. If you're lucky you'll get eye contact. There are long silences at night as your Ultimate Human stalks other Ultimate Humans to see if the training matches.Me: "Should we order in?"Ultimate Human: "Did you see that this Ultimate Human did 100km more than me? What am I going to do? I haven't done enough. Let me ask my Ultimate Human WhatsApp group."The night before is all about getting an early dinner - like at 2pm - and going to bed at 5pm.Your Ultimate Human is up early. And so are you. In our case it's a 3am wake-up call. It's your job to make sure your Ultimate Human has remembered everything. Vaseline chafe spots. Nipple plasters. Sunblock.The start is chaos. People are trying to find their seeding pens, making emergency loo stops. Eventually they break free. (You get used to seeing squatting bums as people find any open spot to wee. If you're having a bad day, a number two.)You rush back home and go over your schedule. You've got to meet your Ultimate Human at key spots. In my case we did Westville, Cato Ridge, Polly Shortts and the end.Not only are you the support but you're suddenly a mathematician. Working out how long it will take you to get to a certain spot, figuring out if the Ultimate Human's race plan has gone accordingly and carrying all those potatoes and eggs can be complicated.After the last stop you make your way to the end where thousands of family members in either Pietermaritzburg or Durban wait for the Ultimate Humans to come through.You're worried. Anything could have happened. The last time you saw your Ultimate Human you got nothing. Not even a grunt.And then they come through.The joy when you see your Ultimate Human crossing the line is hard to explain.They did it. You did it.You spent 12 hours running it with them. Ask my step counter. I made 10,000 steps that day.It's painful. And glorious.They get a medal. Cry at the end. Lift their hands as they cross the finish line. You get engulfed in a sweaty hug.I loved every moment and my Ultimate Human was very grateful.But I reckon Comrades should investigate giving supporters medals. Or free candy floss.