Leggy dancers in tight shorts, Moët champagne and flashy cars feature in Nigerian pop icon Wizkid’s bling-bling music videos. But the singer himself has now swapped the Versace T-shirts and low-slung jeans for traditional African dress - a new youth trend in fashion hub Lagos. Last year Vogue voted Wizkid Nigeria's best-dressed pop singer, a particularly coveted and prestigious title in a country where appearance is all-important and competition is fierce. Clothing that used to be considered only for the old or for people out in the provinces is setting the trend in fashion, from the Yoruba Agbada, a large, triple-layered robe worn in the southwest, to the Igbo "Niger Delta" embroidered collarless shirt from the south, and the northern Hausa Babariga, a long tunic worn with an embroidered asymmetrical hat. In recent years, this traditional clothing - or "trad" as it's dubbed - can be seen in offices as well as nightclubs, and at weddings and business meetings. "It's the in-thing now," Wizkid told Vogue. "When I'm back home, all I wear is African fabrics. I get material from different parts of Nigeria and I mix it up," said the 26-year-old superstar. Lack of space in Lagos, a sprawling megacity of 20 million inhabitants, has meant there are few shopping centres, and ready-to-wear stores are hard to find. Economic recession and the fall of the naira currency has put paid to wealthy Nigerians' shopping sprees in Dubai, Paris and Milan. Instead, they've had to make do with what's on offer locally, sending the popularity of roadside tailors soaring. In 2012 Omobolaji Ademosu, known as BJ, left his job in a bank to set up his own line of men's clothing, Pro7ven. In two tiny workshops in Ojodu, on the outskirts of Lagos, his dozen employees cut, sew and iron a series of orders to the sound of a diesel generator. BJ calls his style "African contemporary". His work includes magnificent made-to-measure agbadas which can sell for up to 150,000 naira (R6,000) each. With more than 500 ethnic groups, Nigeria is able to draw from a huge catalogue of fabrics, styles and jewellery. The beauty of each ethnic look has begun to extend beyond Nigeria's borders. Last month Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, a spokesman for the EFF, posted a picture of himself on Instagram in a dark "Niger Delta" outfit, complete with wide-brimmed hat and gemstone necklace. His female fans were quick to comment with emoji hearts, affectionately calling him "Igwe" (an Igbo prince). "Even in Paris, young people from the diaspora want to present themselves as African princes now," said Nelly Wandji, owner of MoonLook, an African fashion boutique in the upmarket Rue du Faubourg St-Honoré. "Nigeria is clearly the leader in fashion in terms of style, creativity and number of recognised designers," she said. "Lagos Fashion Week has dethroned Johannesburg. Nigerians have remained much more authentic, they have retained 'African pride', whereas South Africa is very Europeanised." Wandji, who is French of Cameroonian heritage, said the trend was due to the African diaspora, of which Nigerians were the main ambassadors by sheer weight of numbers. "Young people from the diaspora are the drivers of African fashion, they have reappropriated their culture and made it trendy because it's seen in Europe or the US," she said. • This article was originally published in The Times.