From this week, South Africa s second-largest online news destination, with nearly 4-million readers a month, will have a sleek new design that brings it in line with modern digital publication trends.One improvement is that the new TimesLIVE is a fully responsive website, which means our page layouts will adjust automatically to make our articles easy to read on any mobile device. It s also optimised for fast loading speeds and low data usage.We will continue to offer the same quality reporting throughout the day , breaking the news with stories, analysis and opinion.The new TimesLIVE has a renewed focus on the work of our multimedia team, with a dedicated, user-friendly video page collecting the latest news, explainers and insightful features on South African and global issues.Meanwhile, while fake news has become a problem on the internet, our technology helps us maintain our credibility. By using the secure HTTPS web publishing protocol, we safeguard TimesLIVE from third-party attacks and hijacking, which protects our readers from malware and guarantees that our content originates from our trusted newsroom.Click here to take a look at the beta (test) version of our new website.As before, the Sunday Times website will form part of the overall TimesLIVE website, with a beautiful new design to endorse its unique identity. We also have an exciting announcement. Though most Sunday Times articles are usually reserved for subscribers, all Sunday Times digital content will be free to read for a limited period after the relaunch, so that you can fully explore our new website.When you click on a Sunday Times article, you ll only need to register (quick and free) to proceed.All TimesLIVE articles remain free to read as usual. South Africa is experiencing one of its most dramatic and important news chapters and the award-winning journalists of TimesLIVE and the Sunday Times are at the forefront of breaking these stories, said Andrew Trench, group digital editor and editor of The Times. Our new digital platforms provide a palette for excellent digital storytelling and we plan to push the boundaries of innovation that our new sites and the technology that underpins them will allow. We will keep improving the new TimesLIVE as we receive feedback from our readers. We want to know what you like, what you love and what you feel can be improved.E-mail your comments to feedback@timeslive.co.za. If you re referring to specific problems or concerns, try to be as clear as possible.