In his confession, Mnguni said that after he was arrested in July last year, he realised that what he practised in his church was not written in the Bible. I started watching Emmanuel TV and listening to Pastor TB Joshua, and I came to realise that what I was doing was not scriptural said Mnguni on the Christian TV network founded by the televangelist.Mnguni of End Time Disciples Ministries and popularly known as the Snake Pastor , made headlines for feeding snakes to the members of his congregation as a purported demonstration of God s power.Among the bizarre things he did was feeding parts of a live rat to congregants locking one of his congregation in a deep freezer for more than 30 minutes, and driving a car over congregants.These acts outraged human and animal rights organisations and he was arrested for his antics.Mnguni approached Joshua for deliverance "from the spirit that pushed him to engage in such bizarre, inhumane actions". The 'Snake Pastor' appeared before the Synagogue Church of All Nations service on Sunday. It was a shock to many," wrote TB Joshua on his Facebook page. "Penuel told the congregation that he had read certain scriptures such as Mark 16:17-18, which led him to believe he could feed his congregants with strange items to prove the power of God. 'The Snake Pastor' from South Africa is in The SCOAN confessing that feeding snakes to the people is not biblical. What's your response? TB Joshua (@SCOANTBJoshua) 4 June 2017 'The Snake Pastor' from South Africa is in The SCOAN confessing that feeding snakes to the people is not biblical. What's your response?His twitter followers seemed pleased with the 'Snake Pastors' realisation: I will not judge him for me not to be judged. I pray for the God to deliver him and me because we are all sinners ndahala (@ndahala1) 4 June 2017 I will not judge him for me not to be judged. I pray for the God to deliver him and me because we are all sinnersAm happy he has realized the truth. God will deliver him. Ambrose Anavhe (@ambrosexcel) 4 June 2017 Am happy he has realized the truth. God will deliver him.I'm happy he has realized his mistakes and turned to God ...who are we to judge we give God the glory ... Mrs_M (@kenna_Edy) 4 June 2017 I'm happy he has realized his mistakes and turned to God ...who are we to judge we give God the glory ...I'm happy that he finally found God and I pray that we all support him through this time and also celebrate with him in his found grace. joana (@joana20087499) 4 June 2017 I'm happy that he finally found God and I pray that we all support him through this time and also celebrate with him in his found grace.