Limpopo police have thwarted a business robbery and arrested three suspects allegedly linked to a series of crimes‚ including armed robberies and vehicle hijackings. Limpopo police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said the Provincial Tracking team who were conducting an intelligence-led sting operation in the Nebo Policing area outside Groblesdal had “successfully intercepted a trio crime syndicate who were en-route to go and commit a business robbery”. “These suspects were pulled off the road at Brooklyn village and two suspects‚ aged 26 and 32‚ were arrested and the following items were recovered inside their car which was also using false registration numbers‚” Ngoepe said. Ngoepe said police had also recovered a 9mm pistol with eight rounds of ammunition and a magazine; a blue dash light; four black balaclavas; police handcuffs; three caps; two pairs of registration numbers; black tape; eight black heavy duty cable ties; eight pairs of cleavers and two bag packs. “These suspects were linked to a series of crimes ranging from armed robberies‚ highjackings‚ and business robberies to conspiracy to commit business robbery including the business robbery which they committed some days back at the local restaurant. “These suspects were terrorising members of the Community in the Burgersfort‚ Ga-Matlala‚ Nebo and the surrounding areas using a blue light‚” Ngoepe said. He said the suspects would appear before the Nebo Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of armed robbery‚ business robbery‚ carjacking‚ possession of an unlicensed firearm‚ ammunition‚ a blue light and handcuffs‚ and conspiracy to commit business robbery. Meanwhile in the Ga-Masemola policing area outside Lebowakgomo at Ramushu Section‚ a 25-year-old man was arrested in possession of 93 explosives‚ equipment and tools to the estimated total value of R150‚000‚ he said. “The origin of these items is still being investigated. “The suspect will appear before Lebowakgomo Magistrate Court on Monday. “Police investigations are still continuing. - TimesLIVE