He is back in the country of his birth and this time for the first time he has the Springboks in his cross hairs.Le Roux who like former prop Pieter de Villiers was born in the Swartland before going on to represent France is by no means conflicted about playing the Springboks.Truth is he is rather relishing it in the build up to the first Test at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. I've been dreaming about it. I've played around 30 Tests but haven't played the Boks yet so it is a big challenge for me. Playing them will be special. I've got all my mates and family and would like to perform here. I'm not too stressed about it. It would be great to win the series. However Le Roux who plays for Racing92 is wary of the Boks.They are down to seventh in the world rankings but he believes that belies their true ability and potential. They've put that behind them he said about their poor 2016. They have a good coach coming in in Brendan Venter. He'll pull their structures together especially on defence where they were struggling a bit."That is a bit positive for them. They also have some great players. I can't see why they won't be a better side this season."They'll be more confident. They are playing in their own country. I don't think they deserve their world ranking at the moment. They are a quality side. They will always be one of the best teams in the world."They've won two World Cups. They didn't have a good last year but they have such good individuals in all the key positions. They will be a great team soon. The Parisian who tracks his way back to the Swartland once a year looks absolutely stoked to be back in the country. I come for one or two weeks to see my mother and the maid and go on a bit of a hunting trip and safari. "I grew up on a farm outside Cape Town said Le Roux but added he maintains an outdoor lifestyle in France. The president of the club has a hunting farm. We go fishing every second weekend. We've got a good long summer. In winter we stay indoors. He knows he's never had a South African winter like this before. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport