Wins were a precious commodity in 2016 so starting this international season off on a positive note was vital.In that sense the 37-14 victory over France at Loftus was a case of mission accomplished. But it s still early in the season.Here are five things we learnt on Saturday:1. Bok set piece is strong The set piece was the only positive aspect of the Boks overall 2016 season and on the evidence against France the scrums and lineouts are going to be strengths again this year.The lineouts weren t perfect at the weekend but one adept move led a great try for scrumhalf Ross Cronje while the Boks poached three of the opposition s balls.Scrums were solid if not totally dominant but with an entirely new pack it will take some time to bed down. Hooker Malcolm Marx made Test rugby look easy in his first start. 2. France cannot play much worse It s easy to be carried away by this win but France were poor in many areas of the game.They made 37 handling errors a number that surely won t be repeated again?Some of their mistakes were down to Bok pressure but the French didn t respect possession enough and tried to play too much rugby with a makeshift team.They ll be an improved unit for the second Test and have seven returning Clermont and Toulon players to come into selection reckoning. Remember Ireland won the first June Test last year and lost the series.Despite the emphatic score the Boks are not over the line yet and can expect a backlash from a stronger Les Blues at sea level in Durban. 3. SA defence had more urgency After some dismal defensive performances last year this was a much better collective effort by the Boks.They were more urgent on the gainline and their linespeed was good. France did manage to manoeuvre the ball to the tips and pressurise Raymond Rhule in particular.The Boks scrambled and covered well but if France had been more clinical in possession they might have created more problems.The Boks made 178 tackles to France s 100 but missed 36 which is too high. Despite the below par 85% tackle completion there was more aggression about their defensive work. A good platform to build on in the coming weeks. 4. Frans Steyn s experience was essential The Springboks were comfortably in control until French scrumhalf Baptiste Serin scored to narrow the gap to 16-14 after 56 minutes.Suddenly the callow Bok playmakers looked ragged and were playing too much rugby in their own territory and being turned over.Enter the experienced Steyn. In one move on his 22 he looked up kicked deep and turned the French.Several phases later the Boks were awarded a penalty try and Brice Dulin a yellow card. Game over thanks to cool-headed game management from Steyn. 5. Cronje could be the answer Debutant scrumhalf Ross Cronje might solve the vexing scrumhalf problem for the Boks.He is the epitome if the team man doing nothing flashy but everything with calm assuredness.He cleared the base of rucks quickly without fuss kicked when appropriate and sniped occasionally which had the French defence on edge.It was a composed performance that helped settle the skittish Elton Jantjies at flyhalf who delivered his best performance in a Bok jersey. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport