It's become somewhat of a tradition for South Africans to gather around the telly come Comrades Sunday. We watch in awe as the elite runners zoom past the big five hills (look at me, knowing all the Comrades terminology) and push themselves to earn the coveted top ten gold medal.After that it's really about getting comfy on your couch with a 2litre and a big bag of puffs as you watch ordinary folks squeeze every inch out of their bodies for the tiniest medal in history. Oh, and to call themselves a Comrades finisher.Afterwards, the runners are celebrated and called brave and hereos. They're part of the respected Comrades Club and "you just won't get it unless you've done it." For 12 painful hours (or less of they're blessed) they've conquered the road, their minds have wavered and recovered and their bodies have been on the brink of collapse. They're Ultimate Humans. And so is the support.Every wife, girlfriend, boyfriend, husband, mother, cousin, brother and sister... I feel ya.A post shared by Jess Farah (@missjesslevitt) on Jun 4, 2017 at 4:08am PDTIt's not just race dayYou might be watching the race on and off for most of Sunday, but we have been through this journey for a year.Yup, for the past six months I've been a single wife. Friday night braais and Saturday movie nights? Ja, how does that feel, normal couples? 'Cause anything that ends after 8pm is a no-go. Hello, it's either a long run or a race and going to bed later will affect the Ultimate Human's performance.If you're lucky enough to have your Ultimate Human home and still awake past 8pm, you're likely to be confronted by the back of their heads and a bright screen locked onto Strava. Their thumbs will scroll past every runner, analyze their hills, gradients (I think hills and gradients may be the same thing) pace and how many thumbs up they got.It's kind of like Facebook stalking but your Ultimate Human will think they their much better because this is "not the same."You're suddenly part of a new group of friends and all of them are Ultimate Humans or know Ultimate Human stories.Early dinners go like this:Me: "I think I'll have the pasta"*10 sets of eyes hurl my way. Then that knowing look "Oh, she's not an Ultimate Human."An Ultimate Human to the waitress: "Can I have a side salad with no dressing please."*She weighs 52kgs and calls herself fat on social media posts after having a sweet potato bake.Me: "Do you serve celery?"Conversation is also limited. The Guptas and Molefe issues are given a side plate and instead the Ultimate Humans are discussing black toenails, runny stomachs and bloody nipples.Yeah, totally best life things!Just before race dayIt's two weeks before Comrades and your Ultimate Human is a hypochondriac. A little cough could mean bronchitis and no race. A slight twitch in the glute is a national crisis and deserves an emergency call to all the other Ultimate Humans for advice. The phones buzzes with the Ultimate Human WhatsApp group on full alert.Your generic "how was your day?" is returned with a snort. If you're lucky you'll get eye contact. There are long silences at night as your Ultimate Human stalks other Ultimate Humans to see if the training matches.Me: "Should we order in?"Ultimate Human: "Did you see that this Ultimate Human did 100km more than me? What am I going to do? I haven't done enough. Let me ask my Ultimate Human WhatsApp group."*I take out the Provitas from the cupboard.The day before we head to Durban is filled with lists.- gels- eggs- strapping- potatoes- Rehidrat- plasters- assorted medication (we're a pharmacy)- other nameless goods that require a large cooler box and two big bagsThe night before is really all about getting an early dinner (like 2pm) and going to bed at 5pm. Everything is laid out and ready for the 3am alarm clock.My Ultimate Human is luckily enough to sleep like the dead but I've heard of other people who toss and turn and the support gets kicked out of bed so the Ultimate Human can attempt to sleep. Long day ahead and all.Race dayYour Ultimate Human is up early. And so are you. In our case it's a 3am wake-up call. It's your job to make sure your Ultimate Human has remembered everything. - Vaseline those chafe spots - Are the plasters in place? - Chip on the shoe - Sunblock applied - Nutrition to carry - Breakfast served We hit the road to the start and pass thousands of Ultimate Human's applying Vaseline and saying goodbye to their loved ones. The start is chaos. People are trying to find their seeding pens, making emergency loo stops, holding on to their support and eventually breaking free to the start. You totally get used to seeing squatting bums as people find any open spot to make a last minute wee. If you're having a pad day, a number two.You rush back home and watch the start from a comfy couch.Then you go over your schedule. You've got to meet your Ultimate Human at certain key spots to hand over essentials. If you're lucky, you get one allocated spot. In my case we did Westville, Cato Ridge, Polly Shortts and the end.The bottom of Polly Shorts #comrades2017 pic.twitter.com/xiWLE3kEr5 Not only are you the support but you're suddenly a mathematician. Working out how long it will take you to get to a certain spot, figuring out if the Ultimate Human's race plan has gone accordingly and carrying all those potatoes and eggs can be complicated.As you stand on the sides (because you're inevitably half an hour early) you exchange sympathetic glances with other support."It's tough hey. My wife was supposed to be here half an hour ago. I don't know if she's going to make it. I don't know where she is," says one guy.On race day I had support crew for the entire day (bless you Brendan and Melissa) We had posters made and even had beer on hand.Free beer for the runners #ComradesMarathon2017 pic.twitter.com/yjOsNyfTLeSome runners, desperate for a little extra spike, took entire cans.They're loving us #ComradesMarathon2017 pic.twitter.com/lqHdyjv94OThe endAfter the last stop you make your way to the end where thousands of family members, running clubs and Durban residents (who just support for fun. They don't even have family there) wait for the Ultimate Humans to come through.You're worried though. Anything could have happened. The last time you saw your Ultimate Human you got nothing. Not a smile. Not a grunt. Just a pain-filled silence.And then they come through.The joy when you see your Ultimate Human crossing the line is hard to explain.They did it. You did it.You spent 12 hours running it with them. Ask my step counter. I made 10,000 steps that day (It's a lot, okay)It's painful. And glorious.They get a medal. Cry at the end. Lift their hands as they cross the finish line.You get engulfed in a sweaty hug.I loved every moment and my Ultimate Human was very grateful.But I do reckon Comrades should investigate giving supporters medals. Or free candy floss. We might not be Ultimate Humans but we are certainly Super Human.*Jessica Levitt is the Group Entertainment Editor at Times Media. She's also a Super Human.