We're celebrating the launch of the new TimesLIVE website with an exciting offer - for a limited time period our readers can read all Sunday Times articles for free. Yes, you read that right. Though most Sunday Times articles are usually reserved for subscribers, all Sunday Times digital content will be open to read for a limited period after the relaunch, so that you can fully explore our new website. When you click on a Sunday Times article, you’ll only need to register (quick and free) to proceed. We're making it even easier for you to stay informed. Once you’ve registered, you can also receive any of our brand-new range of email newsletters: a Sunday Times round-up on Sunday mornings; a weekly Sunday Times Lifestyle newsletter; TimesLIVE morning, afternoon and breaking news emails; or a twice-weekly TshisaLIVE newsletter. While the Sunday Times website forms part of the overall TimesLIVE website, it has a beautiful new design to endorse its unique identity. It is a fully responsive website, which means our page layouts will adjust automatically to make our articles easy to read on any mobile device. It’s also optimised for fast loading speeds and low data usage. We will continue to offer the same quality reporting throughout the day​, breaking the news with stories, analysis and opinion. Reader comments are back – on some articles. We know the usual concerns around reader comment areas descending into chaos, so we’ll do our best to keep the conversation clean. To comment, you’ll have to register, which is quick and free. “South Africa is experiencing one of its most dramatic and important news chapters and the award-winning journalists of TimesLIVE and the Sunday Times are at the forefront of breaking these stories,” said Andrew Trench, group digital editor and editor of The Times. “Our new digital platforms provide a palette for excellent digital storytelling and we plan to push the boundaries of innovation that our new sites – and the technology that underpins them – will allow.” We will keep improving the new website as we receive feedback from our readers. We want to know what you like, what you love and what you feel can be improved. E-mail your comments to feedback@timeslive.co.za. If you’re referring to specific problems or concerns, try to be as clear as possible.