As if golf wasn’t hard enough for the average person‚ a former Durbanite is taking it to the extreme by walking and hitting across the vast‚ rugged terrain in Mongolia. Ron Rutland‚ 42‚ a former banker and event planner from Durban‚ and Adam Rolston of Hong Kong‚ will tee-off on Thursday from the base camp of Khüiten Peak‚ the highest and most western point in Mongolia in what is going to be the longest hole ever played. This is another extreme adventure for Rutland who‚ from 2013 to 2015‚ cycled through Africa and Europe. Rutland‚ who is the caddie‚ will be pulling a 120kg cart filled with water‚ food‚ 400 golf balls‚ clubs‚ sleeping bags and tents over 82 days. They will cover some 1‚850km. The pair has been training at gym‚ hiking and towing various items in preparation. “After major hip surgery last year‚ this is somewhat daunting. It will be freezing in the beginning‚ very hot in the middle and we shall play through the middle of the wet season‚ so some discomfort will be guaranteed‚” said Rutland‚ who was in Hong Kong as the duo made final preparations. Rolston will take the first of some 14‚000 shots as he embarks on a world record attempt at the longest hole in golf. Not only is it an adventure for the two friends as they head slowly east for the 18th green of the Mt Bogd Golf Club on the outskirts of the capital city‚ Ulaanbaatar‚ but they will also be raising money for Laureus Sport For Good‚ whose goal is to help young people overcome social challenges. They will also be swinging for the South African Golf Development Board‚ which aims to take the game to the people and develop players. “They are both incredible organisations that use the power of sport to uplift. The work of Laureus inspires me everyday‚” said Rutland. He said they will share their journey on social media so their efforts can be followed in real time. The pair wants to raise R1.2-million for the two organisations. They will trek without any help and will spend their nights in tents‚ in the mountains and desserts and plains of Mongolia. Rutland said they will at times be joined by one of their friends and film maker‚ Andrew King‚ as they are planning to produce a documentary of their adventure. As a vegan‚ Rutland’s food of choice is limited to instant noodles‚ rice‚ beans‚ dehydrated camping food and‚ as a treat‚ chocolate bars - while Rolston would be able to partake in local delicacies when they come across villages‚ settlements and nomadic dwellings. He said the northern Gobi dessert was one of the most inhospitable places on the planet‚ adding that they plan on covering 25km a day to complete their adventure within the 90 day visa. Rutland said he and Rolston‚ a former Hong Kong rugby player‚ became friends while playing rugby. “We reconnected in Kenya last year. Adam’s rugby career was coming to an end and he was keen for a golfing adventure. I was roped into it and I was ready for another adventure. Life’s short and is meant to be an adventure and the power of the mind is an incredible thing‚ so why not?” he said. To follow their adventure‚ go to www.thelongesthole.com or search @thelongesthole on Facebook and Twitter. - TimesLIVE