It’s possibly the most anticipated and controversial fight in combat history: the flashy American Floyd “Money” Mayweather going up against “Notorious” Conor McGregor from Ireland. The fight is scheduled for Sunday August 27 at 5am CAT. Watch it live on SuperSport or, if you’d rather sleep in after a big Saturday night out, the fight will be up on Showmax by 10am CAT. He’s not called Floyd “Money” Mayweather for nothing. The superstar boxer has been known to carry a million dollars in cash when he’s out in public and openly flaunts it. Looking at what Mayweather earned when he fought Manny Pacquiao in 2015, we get an idea of how much the fight purse is. TV revenue alone was said to have passed $400-million, with Mayweather walking away with a cool $180-million from that fight alone. If the pay-per-view revenue follows the trend of the Mayweather–Pacquiao bout, the winner of The Money Fight could walk away with about $250-million. And that’s just insane. Mayweather has fought 49 professional boxing matches and won them all. McGregor has fought zero. At the bookies, his odds of winning are five to one and expectations are low. McGregor is also a UFC fighter, meaning he is a mixed martial artist, whereas Mayweather is purely a boxer. So when McGregor steps into the ring (not the octagon) he’s deep in Mayweather’s territory. This is a clash of styles unlike anything seen before. The hype around this fight has been bonkers. The fighters are getting extremely personal at the press briefings, and for our viewing pleasure the insults will keep on coming. Ringside seats will set you back $10,000 a pop (about R131,000), while the “cheap seats” are going for $500 each. Other ticket prices range from $1,500 to $7,500. And if you don’t have several grand to spend on tickets, pay-per-view will cost $99.95 for high definition in the US. As a Showmax subscriber, you get to watch the fight at no extra cost, when you want to, on the same day it happens. Showmax has even more to get you ready for the biggest fight in combat history with an all-access backstage pass to watch how these legendary fighters are preparing for the big bout. Here’s the trailer: We take you behind the scenes of both camps for an intimate look at how the champs prepare mentally and physically. You’ll see superstars like Snoop Dogg and Rihanna choosing their sides: Snoop backs Mayweather, while Rihanna has declared her loyalty to McGregor by tweeting him “49-1” in reference to Mayweather’s 49-0 undefeated record. The tweet was quickly deleted. This article was paid for by Showmax.