MKR SA is not MasterChef, it's not a pretentious cheffy cooking show, rather a home-cooking show. My tip to contestants is to not veer away from what you are good at making. MKR SA contestants submit a whole bunch of menus and they don't know which one they will be cooking till the day. It puts them under a lot of pressure but that's the excitement. Fellow judge David Higgs and I aren't there to test our palates, rather to judge techniques, creativity and taste - and to give an opinion on the dish. In the first episode, Bloem Besties Liz and Leanne prepared gemsbok steaks with a chocolate glacé cherry and white wine sauce. When we saw their menu, David and I thought ugh. But it didn't taste as bad as we thought. There are a lot of tears and drama in MKR SA. And a lot of tension. I'm not great with tears because I'm not a teary person but the drama makes good entertainment. In terms of the criticism of MKR SA not reflecting South Africa's diversity, my opinion is that it started off in a direction that wasn't intentional and changes as the show goes on. If someone was coming to my house to judge my cooking I would make Portuguese prawns and serve them with fresh bread, and I'm going to blow you away with the experience. I would share the story of how I grew up with my grandmother making these prawns for me and how my grandfather would arrive home with the fresh bread and a pint of beer. The secret to my prawns is beer, like Castle Milk Stout, or white wine added to the pan juices, and poured over the prawns just before serving. I didn't train as a chef actually I didn't train for anything I've done, but I do have a marketing degree. ( J'Something is frontman for the band Mi Casa and owns a restaurant in Pretoria called Something's Cooking by J'Something.) I grew up in the restaurant industry as my mom ran her own restaurant for many years in Port Alfred. Music or food? It has to be music because I could never run a restaurant for the rest of my life. I started my food career as a hobby to relax outside of music. When I'm on the stage, that 's where I forget everything. The guest list for my ultimate fantasy dinner party would be dad who passed away two weeks before I was offered the opportunity to open my restaurant. My favourite chef, Dave Chang, of Momofuku in Canada. My brother Bruno who lives in Portugal. I'd invite Michael Jackson as he absolutely changed my life and was my superhero. My last meal? I love making pizza and have a pizza oven at home. It would be a family-sized with prosciutto, goats cheese, balsamic and rocket. • Catch 'My Kitchen Rules South Africa' on M-Net (DStv 101) on Sundays at 6pm.