An evenly-matched Absa Premieship game at FNB Stadium on Saturday might have been settled for Chiefs had Willard Katsande not seen his 84th-minute penalty saved by Pirates goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo. It was a fantastic atmosphere. We are lucky not just the clubs but the league in South Africa to have a game like this Jonevret raved of the famous match afterwards. There are many countries who would be jealous of not having this game. It's a fantastic thing that you build up for a week. It was great. Pirates could only manage another draw by the same scoreline as their result against Polokwane City at Orlando Stadium in their previous game in new Bucs coach Jonevret s second match in charge.Both sides had their chances though and the Swede said he thought they had served up an entertaining game. I thought Chiefs kept the ball and were a bit stronger than us in the first five or six minutes Bucs coach said. But then after a while the possession was good and we kept the ball a bit and started playing. I thought we played very good football in the first half. When they scored [through Joseph Molangoane in the 18th minute] it was a bit soft I think it was the first time they had a shot in the game. So I was a bit disappointed. In the second half it looked to me like Chiefs were stronger. But overall I thought it was a good game and a tough game and I thought the crowd also liked it. It was an open game with a lot of chances. I haven t seen a replay of the penalty decision so I have to give the benefit of the doubt to the linesman. But from our players I thought it was a bit soft. So if we had lost the game 2-1 it would have been really tough. But 1-1 having conceded a penalty that s OK for me. Even if I tried to put on offensive players in Riyaad Norodien and Tendai Ndoro to try to win. Yes so a draw was maybe OK but we want to win. Pirates equalised through Dove Wome in the 33rd minute.Bucs who remain struggling in 10th place have another tough assignment against third-placed SuperSport United at Orlando Stadium in their next fixture on Tuesday night. - TMG Digital