Shamiel Cassim a former restaurant owner and labour broker for the navy is buying the historic Royal Alfred Hall despite fierce opposition from the local historical society.The largely derelict 150-year-old building currently owned by the City of Cape Town was once at the centre of Simon s Town social life and served variously as a masonic lodge a social club during World War II a ballroom dancing venue and an artist craft centre.It has since fallen into disrepair prompting the City to put it up for sale.However critics of the sale have raised concerns about the prospective new owner Cassim who has also applied for special permission to build a five-storey mansion in the heart of Simon s Town s historical district.The proposed mansion described as beyond hideous in a written notice to affected residents has raised doubts about Cassim s plans for the Royal Alfred Hall plans he has to date declined to clarify.Both the hall and the building proposal have prompted opposition from sections of the Simon s Town community while some residents accuse Cassim of condoning dubious tactics to quell resistance against the proposed mansion on Runciman Drive overlooking the naval base.Last week a meeting of residents heard that Cassim s architect had aggressively approached building objectors. This form of divide and conquer technique has not been utilised before in Simon s Town to our knowledge Historical Society chairman Dave Erickson said in a statement. It smacks of strong-arm tactics and detrimental to people who may be vulnerable. Cassim who once co-owned a fish and chips restaurant on the main road has not responded to queries.TimesLIVE spoke with his wife Rizwana who also declined to comment.The City confirmed the sale of the hall was being finalised. The property is not required for the provision of basic municipal services said Stuart Diamond Mayoral Committee Member for Assets and Facilities Management. The maintenance costs of the property far exceeded its life cycle cost and it is no longer required for the City s needs. This prompted the decision to alienate the asset. However the transfer of the title deed appears to have been delayed due to the numerous concerns raised.There is also controversy around a failed last-minute bid to have the building declared a provincial heritage site a move initiated by Erickson.He said the society was desperate to avoid another derelict building in a prime tourist location the historic Dawood Building next door had recently been condemned. The same thing could quite easily happen with the Royal Alfred that is something I really don t want to see Erickson said adding that the city council had refused to back his bid to apply for provincial heritage status. The Historical Society has a clear duty to take all steps necessary to ensure that the Dawood Building situation is not repeated at the Royal Alfred Hall he said.Mary Kindo director of the local Phoenix Committee representing the Simon s Town coloured community forcibly removed from the area during apartheid said the committee also opposed the sale of the building which could have been developed for everybody s benefit. (The sale) is sad because the building has gone to one sector of the population and not to the broader community who used to use it said Kindo.She said the committee had not been notified about the sale. We were brought in a bit late. By the time we were aware of it the tender had gone out said Kindo whose brother-in-law Christopher Kindo learnt dancing in the hall and went to achieve international fame.Felicity Purchase City of Cape Town sub-council chairperson confirmed concerns about the sale. I would prefer that it stays in the ownership of the City ... and is used as a genuine community facility. In my opinion it is a heritage treasure. The fact that we haven t maintained it should not be the deciding factor on whether we get rid of it Purchase said.