Senatla played in the first four tournaments of the current World Sevens Series and was the leading try-scorer with 32 strikes.But he had decided to focus his long-term ambitions on the 15-man game and this weekend marks a major step in his career. He is on the bench for this weekend s clash and has spent the last few weeks in the gym and swatting team tactics. Seabelo sees it simply rugby is rugby and he has been getting used to the patterns and some of the structures in general play coach Robbie Fleck said. He s looking good and fit after a little mental break from the game after his sevens commitments. We wanted to give him more time but this is the right game from him to come on to the bench. Seabelo needed to recondition from sevens because they re a bit lighter in that format so he has spent some time in the gym. But we don t want him to get too heavy. Technically he is spot on. Fleck only made two changes to the starting lineup from the team that beat the Bulls 37-24 in their tournament opener last week. Centre Dan Kriel will start at No 12 in place of the injured Damian de Allende while No 8 Sikhumbuzo Notshe replaces Nizaam Carr who sustained a deep gash in his leg last weekend. Carr s stitches come out on Friday so he has been included on the bench but as he hadn t taken any contact at training in the week Fleck decided to leave him out. Fleck briefly toyed with the idea of selecting Scotland centre Huw Jones who was at training on Tuesday with the Six Nations on a bye weekend. But in the end Fleck felt it was unfair to pick Jones. Huw trained on Tuesday but we decided that in terms of continuity of selection we went with Dan Kriel Fleck said. Huw has a massive game against England next week which is a decider. To be fair to him his mind is on that game. There has been no pressure from Scotland. We have been in constant communication with them throughout this whole process. Captain Siya Kolisi expects an entirely different challenge from the Jaguares to the one the Bulls posed last week. The Jaguares didn t start well against the Kings last week but they ended well by scoring a few nice tries Kolisi said. They like to run the ball they want quick breakdowns they want continuity and they like to attack from turnover. They attack wider which is different to last week. It s a different challenge because they have speed good steppers and they like to use the inside pass so we have to expect everything this week. Stormers: 15-SP Marais 14-Cheslin Kolbe 13-EW Viljoen 12-Dan Kriel 11-Dillyn Leyds 10-Jean-Luc du Plessis 9-Jano Vermaak 8-Sikhumbuzo Notshe 7-Siya Kolisi (capt) 6-Rynhardt Elstadt 5-Pieter-Steph du Toit 4-Eben Etzebeth 3-Wilco Louw 2-Bongi Mbonambi 1-JC Janse van Rensburg. Reserves: 16-Ramone Samuels 17-Oli Kebble 18-Frans Malherbe 19-Chris van Zyl 20-Nizaam Carr 21-Dewaldt Duvenage 22-Rob du Preez 23-Seableo Senatla - TMG Digital/TMG Sport