He was always a brave player on the pitch but I never imagined he would have to face the same tragedy as I did. This week the Manchester United legend told in a BBC documentary how he had contemplated suicide following his wife Rebecca's death from cancer in 2015. Like Ferdinand, breast cancer took my wife and turned me into a single father in my thirties.It was a viciously aggressive form of the disease and spread to her brain. Carolina died in June 2013, aged just 37 - leaving me trying to work out how to be both mum and dad to our children, just seven and five.I realise I was lucky in some ways, compared with Ferdinand. Carolina's battle was over 18 months from the first diagnosis, while his wife, Rebecca, had barely two months. Time was precious but at least gave me a chance to try to prepare.I asked Carolina to write notes to me and the children, which have been invaluable. We renewed our wedding vows and made last family outings. I realised afterwards how important it was for us to go through these rituals. Grief has no rules but many stages: denial, anger, guilt, bargaining, depression, acceptance, and, there's no obvious end to the process. What you need most is time, but as a single parent that is what I didn't have - running the household, cooking, school runs, not to mention holding down a job to pay the bills.A year after Carolina died, I wasn't coping and started noticing the ground beneath me shaking. After several days of worrying I realised I was experiencing such high levels of stress that I was the one shaking, not the floor. I needed to get help.I sought therapy from grief specialists, which helped me to improve my handling of stress. My children also received counselling at school.In Ferdinand's documentary, in which he explores ways of managing grief, he admits that he didn't have all the answers for his three children.My children, too, wanted answers, as to why and how such an awful thing could happen, but there were none. Jake, now 11, hardly cried in the months after Carolina's death, instead he seemed to be feeling guilty, a common feeling for bereaved children, while Isabella, now nine, was openly devastated at her loss.I cried in front of them on several occasions, deciding it was important for them to see that I shared their pain.Ferdinand said he didn't know how to speak to the children, he didn't know what buttons to push. He'd been starting conversations with them to get to their feelings. But they'd just shut down and walk away.The turning point, for him, was hitting on the idea of a "memory jar", where they could keep memories of their mother written on pieces of paper, and it triggered an outpouring. He said he could hear the joy in their voices - he could hear they wanted to speak about it.We don't have a jar, as such, but keeping Carolina's memory alive has been vital. For the first few months after she died, we read the notes she had left to each of us every night, and now the children keep them in their bedside drawers. We had a memorial seat made in the park, we made photo albums and always light a candle on her birthday. We also talk about the good times.A pivotal moment for Ferdinand appears to be meeting golfer Darren Clarke, whose wife, Heather, had died of cancer in 2006, and who told him that there is life after a loved one's death - however unlikely that may feel.Clarke, who is now remarried, admits to Ferdinand that he didn't think he would ever be this happy again, telling him: "Life goes on. Life has to go on."Carolina openly told me that she wanted me to find someone, as long as they were good for the children. I've dipped my toe in the bemusing world of online dating and while my situation is too complex for many women, others are sympathetic and don't see it as an insurmountable obstacle. Perhaps I'm not too different from the millions of single parents out there. I certainly connect best with other single parents, so there is hope.I've also realised, as perhaps Ferdinand did in making this documentary, that communication and expression are the most effective ways for me to move forward.My children will always miss their mum, as Rio's will theirs, but time and healing have made it easier to bear the pain, focus on the good memories and look forward. Perhaps Carolina herself expressed it best, in a note to me: "Be strong, be patient, be positive, and be happy." - The Daily Telegraph