The history of the company, recently re-branded Snap in an effort to be seen as being about more than a one hit smartphone app, fits into Silicon Valley lore with wealth for its creators as well as controversy regarding who gets credit for its genesis.By the end of last year Snap boasted about 161 million people were using it daily.The startup about to debut as a public company on the stock exchange, however, is based hundreds of kilometres from Silicon Valley in the Los Angeles beach town of Venice.The image of Snap's 26-year-old co-founder and chief Spiegel is far from that of a geek. Media dives into Spiegel's life paint a picture of a privileged childhood in the posh Pacific Palisades community of Southern California, a penchant for parties, and a celebrity fiancee in model Miranda Kerr.His professional experience includes an internship at energy drink company Red Bull, lab work in biomedical computing, and teaching in South Africa. He majored in product design but dropped out before graduation to devote himself to a nascent Snapchat startup.If Spiegel is the public face of Snap, Murphy may well be considered its brain. Snap's technical director is 28 and he is credited for the software that made Snapchat a hit. According to a Forbes story, his parents were local government workers in the city of Berkeley across the bay from San Francisco.The official version of Snap's genesis is that Spiegel and Murphy were Stanford students who became friends and then invented Snapchat."We just thought it might be cool to make photos disappear," Spiegel said at the Stanford conference in 2013.However, a fraternity brother, Reggie Brown, filed a lawsuit claiming that he was ousted from the startup after coming up with the idea - the ghost-shaped logo and the original "Picaboo" name for the app. Resolution of that case was not made public, but Snap paid $157.4-million in 2014 to an unidentified "individual" to settle a legal dispute over intellectual property issues.That payout came the year after Spiegel and Murphy rejected a $3-billion offer from Facebook to buy Snapchat. Forbes now estimates Spiegel and Murphy to be worth $4-billion each. Going public will not reduce the co-founders' control over the company. Shares being sold to investors give ownership stakes but no voting rights."Picaboo" messaging app, launched in 2011, was quickly renamed Snapchat and caught fire with teens who could embrace spontaneity without worrying that images or messages would haunt them.A side effect was that it became seen as a "sexting" app. In its stock exchange regulatory filing, Snap refers to "sexting," but only to stress that its smartphone app is for "much more" than sending risque pictures that vanish after being viewed.Snap intends to "reinvent the camera", and has been expanding availability of its sunglasses with built-in cameras that synch to the smartphone app.The company contends it can generate revenue with advertising aimed at its users in the coveted demographic of people 18 to 34 years old. -