Mayihlome tweeted the following:Think I like working at the airport , may resign and move here Mayihlome (@MTshwete) March 29, 2017 Think I like working at the airport , may resign and move hereIn 5 years, at OR Tambo, we have dismissed 50 officials for corruption, 10 odd other pending cases Mayihlome (@MTshwete) March 29, 2017 In 5 years, at OR Tambo, we have dismissed 50 officials for corruption, 10 odd other pending casesToday alone at OR Tambo we have detained 19 people using fraudulent documents , it's not even 12 yet Mayihlome (@MTshwete) March 29, 2017 Today alone at OR Tambo we have detained 19 people using fraudulent documents , it's not even 12 yet We have just stopped a man from attempting to leave the country with 2 kids without the 2 mothers permission , mothers allegedly unaware Mayihlome (@MTshwete) March 29, 2017 We have just stopped a man from attempting to leave the country with 2 kids without the 2 mothers permission , mothers allegedly unaware We are now verifying the parenthood of all the children and the claimed marriage pic.twitter.com/bL0K0AOHdS Mayihlome (@MTshwete) March 29, 2017We are now verifying the parenthood of all the children and the claimed marriage pic.twitter.com/bL0K0AOHdS Homes Affairs spokesman Mayihlome Tshwete had his eyes opened after he spent a morning working at Johannesburg's OR Tambo International Airport where he witnessed a man try to illegally take two children out of the country.Tshwete said the man arrived at the airport with the two children and a woman he claimed was his wife on Wednesday.He tweeted about his experiences and later told TimesLIVE about what he had discovered. He had a marriage certificate showing she was his wife and he said they were going to west Africa. But when we checked the system it showed that the mother was somebody else not the person standing in front of us. We called the wife and said Do you know that your child is at the airport? She said no said Tshwete.This was the case with both children who had different mothers.He said while it was uncertain whether this was human trafficking such cases were tricky . We are trying to handle issues like this where people are leaving [the country] with children they have no legal authority to leave with said Tshwete.He said he was also shocked by the number of people being held at the airport for using fake documentation. Over the last two days we have had 35 cases comprising fake permits fake visas and that kind of thing. These are people who think we have a weak system and are trying to take advantage of it. It s cases of illegal immigration. He said most of the cases were from Pakistan Bangladesh and Nepal as well as from Nigeria and Ghana. Nineteen of those cases were from Wednesday and this before midday. If we find them we deport them immediately. This is why the minister [of home affairs Malusi Gigaba] said we need to push capacity at home affairs especially at the points of entry. This is an everyday occurrence for the people who work here dealing with child trafficking fraudulent documents and all kinds of illegal chance-takers. You are not doing a good service to the country if you allow people to come in without checks and balances. You can t overlook safety overlook threats and assume that everybody loves you he said.