A team of scientists led by whale expert Ken Findlay has discovered humpback super-groups containing up to 200 animals feeding voraciously between St Helena Bay and Cape Point in early summer. We use the term super-group to describe groups of 20 or more individual humpback whales estimated to be within five body lengths of their nearest neighbour the scientists write in the journal PLOS One. Southern hemisphere humpbacks generally make annual migrations from Antarctic summer feeding grounds to winter calving and nursery grounds in subtropical and tropical coastal waters. Feeding is generally believed to be limited to the southern polar region where Antarctic krill has been identified as the primary prey item say the scientists. But cruises in October and November of 2011 2014 and 2015 discovered super-groups involved in novel and intense feeding behaviour off the Cape coast particularly around Dassen Island.Feeding was identified by surface gaping and lunging and tight turning and repeated strong vertical diving behaviour say the scientists. This was supported by defecations (including brick red solid faeces) and a pungent ( fishy ) odour of the whale blows . These are the first confirmed records of such large aggregation behaviour patterns within low latitude waters and possibly surpass the sizes of feeding groups in both northern and southern polar waters they say. It is of particular interest in light of rapidly recovering humpback populations on both the east and west coasts of southern Africa and in the associated Southern Ocean region. They put forward four possible scenarios for the whales behaviour: - Changes in prey availability; - Increasing humpback abundance intensifying pressure on prey availability elsewhere and a switch in feeding strategies or areas; - Restoration of an old feeding strategy; and - An increase in detection of super-group behaviour as the population increases. Said Findlay who holds the oceans economy research chair at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology: We postulate that the area has developed / is developing into an important seasonal humpback whale feeding ground. Whilst humpback whales in the region are clearly feeding opportunistically on a range of prey species the concentrations identity and size of the prey eliciting super-group feeding behaviours remain unknown and require investigation. - TMG Digital/The Times