To cheers and almost never-ending applause he vowed that 2017 would be the year of the final round against "colonial education" in South Africa. And the student leader - who has likened himself to freedom fighter Robert Sobukwe - has not ruled out the possibility of being arrested again in his pursuit of free education.Buoyed by his release on bail from Westville prison yesterday morning after a Constitutional Court ruling the previous day, Khanyile told students that instead of being traumatised by his imprisonment he had been strengthened.He took a swipe at the "white magistrate, Indian prosecutor and Afrikaner investigating officer who ensured that I was denied bail". "Instead of destroying me they have made me a better man. And I love them too," he said.Wearing around his neck the catapult he was accused of using against a police officer during a violent student protest on campus, Khanyile said: "I also love the police officer who arrested me and the witnesses who testified against me."I want to reiterate that 2017 is going to be the final round of colonial education. We are removing it. We will replace it with free and decolonised education. "I have played my role but by the look of things I don't think it's the last time I'm going to prison."He said students had to ensure that their children and grandchildren saluted them as the people who were prepared to sacrifice themselves, like Sobukwe. allowfullscreen "We're inspired today that the call for free education has been heard. We must ensure that in our lifetime we get free quality education. We must ensure that when our kids and our grandchildren come to our graves they salute us," he said.Khanyile said that while he was in prison he had received messages of support from Swaziland, Brazil and France, and that the people of Swaziland had been inspired by the FeesMustFall campaign.He said they should depose their king, Mswati III, either through the ballot or the barrel of a gun because he was an oppressor.His mother thanked the students and the public for supporting her son while he was in prison.