The eThekwini metro is the respondent and is opposing the application.The Legal Resource Centre (LRC) is representing 26 women who want the high court in Durban to scrap the policy. In papers submitted to the court the LRC argues the policy infringes on the women s constitutional right to housing.In an affidavit a woman who has been a resident at the hostel since 2002 said the situation at the facility has led to an absurd situation where children are effectively hidden in the rooms out of sight of the superintendent .She said children were confined to their mothers rooms because they are not allowed to play outside. Their mothers help them exit the building in the mornings and they or a caregiver are there in afternoon to let them in when they return from school the woman said. There have been times where I have been unable to send the children to school because I was unable to get them past the superintendent at the main gate. The woman takes care of her children her sisters and the child of a friend who had died.The LRC argues that interference with the occupation of the hostel constitutes an infringement of the occupants right to housing as guaranteed to them in Section 26 of the Constitution . The effect of the policy is that women who fall pregnant or who have inadequate resources to care for children could face eviction from their homes. These women are poor and vulnerable. They do not have the resources to secure private accommodation the LRC argues in its papers.In its papers the eThekwini metro argues that the purpose of the hostel was and remains a temporary place of accommodation for people who seek employment within the area of the hostel. Thokoza is well in excess of its capacity. The increased numbers of people who are occupying Thokoza have led to overcrowding which in turn has the potential to lead to the spread of infections such as diarrhoea and STIs as there are approximately 70 tenants who are on active ARV treatment and there are approximately seven tenants who are suffering from active tuberculosis the municipality argues.The municipality argues that it has always been the hostel s policy that children are not allowed at the facility unless such occupation has been accepted and permitted by the [municipality] . Children are however allowed to visit during June/July and December/January holidays. The municipality said it had had to convert a TV room into a 20-bed room to alleviate overcrowding at the hostel. Conditions at Thokoza do not meet the basic requirements for safety standards the bathroom facilities in Thokoza have no doors and pose a real danger to children. 