The injured included two construction workers, two members of the public and one hospital employee.Late last night government officials were saying that they believed all hospital employees and patients had been accounted for.The Gauteng government is now demanding answers from a contractor who was booted off the hospital premises after the collapse.At an impromptu press conference at the hospital, Gauteng MEC for infrastructure development Jacob Mamabolo said the contractor "has a case to answer".Mamabolo said the contractor had moved "concrete" that was distributed across the roof and piled it onto one section of the roof, overloading it.The contractor was hired to waterproof the roof. A doctor who works at the hospital told The Times of the "stupidity" of the contractor."This is an isolated incident. Waterproofing has been taking place on the roof. The collapse has happened because of stupidity," said the doctor, who did not want to be named."The old waterproofing was gravel," said the doctor."Now they have been redoing the roof, they have moved all the gravel to one side. That gravel, which normally covers 100m2 has been piled onto one small side of the roof."The doctor said heavy rain compounded the situation and probably contributed to the roof collapsing. An angry Mamabolo said a preliminary investigation revealed that the contractor "did not do a proper check of the capacity of the structure of the building to carry that weight" and had not placed warning signs in the hospital."We are definitely going to hold them accountable. They have got a case to answer. We will conduct a further investigation on any other issue," he said.Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said "common sense" showed that nothing heavy should have been placed on that section of the roof."There is no reinforcement on that slab, it is very thin."It was not intended for any weight, just by looking with my own eyes my common sense tells me that you can't put anything on top," he said.By late last night most of those who were injured had been treated and discharged. Incoming health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa said the rest of the hospital was open and that families would be able to visit patients as another entrance would be opened.But it was a tense afternoon for some, who were uncertain about the safety of relatives who had visited the hospital.Outpatient Walter Makoro, 68, had a particularly close call.Makoro had left the reception area, where the roof collapsed, after realising that he had left his hospital card and sonar scan in the doctors' rooms.A worried Makoro spoke to The Times as he waited for news about his five friends who had agreed to wait for him."They waited for me in the reception area and I went back to the doctors' rooms to get my things. They were trapped when the roof collapsed," he said, sitting outside the hospital in a wheelchair."I'm very worried about my friends. That's why I'm still here. I want to find out if they're okay." Makoro said he befriended the five other people after they had visited the same urologist."I tried finding out from the rescue workers if they saw my friends. But they're not giving me answers," he said.After waiting for a few hours outside the hospital, Makoro had to leave because he was using public transport.It is not known whether he heard from his friends.- Additional reporting by Kgaugelo Masweneng