The zama zamas (illegal miners) believe that they can succeed where mine rescue technology has failed to date.If the miners do get their chance they will battle many challenges including poor oxygen levels noxious gases low light and no clear idea of exactly where Richard s body may be in the 116m vertical shaft.Richard fell into the Balmoral Gold Mine. The mine according to reports was shut in 1950.Last week the South African National Defence Force was called in to assist with the rescue which was temporarily called off because it had become too dangerous.But according to illegal mining researchers sending zama zamas underground might be a chance worth taking.Zama zama Gordon Manzou who has taken part in several informal rescue operations for other illegal miners trapped in scores of disused mineshafts across Gauteng said if the professional rescue method did not work they should be allowed to try.Endurance Kazembe an illegal miner said: All we have to do is go down there and use a shovel to dig the boy out. Kazembe who went down the shaft a week ago believes Richard has fallen onto a ledge 70m below the surface.The ledge is covered in sand and rocks. Wits University illegal mining expert Professor Robert Thornton said illegal miners had vast experience in navigating old disused mine shafts. They have more experience in that sort of mining situation than professional mine rescue teams who are more used to working in formal industrial mines. They are quite good at bringing bodies out of mines they have their own unique techniques. Kazembe who has formal mine training and who has worked as a zama zama for 16 years said he knew mines inside out.His responsibilities when he formally worked in the mining industry included clearing blockages shaft repairs and handling explosives.Last week Mine Rescue Services CEO Christo de Klerk said rescue operations were called off temporarily because of poor oxygen levels toxic gases and unstable soil conditions. There is an oxygen deficiency 36m down the shaft. No one can survive beyond that point. Kazembe said while they did not have the theoretical training that formal mining staff had they had the practical skills.Thornton said the problem with zama zamas becoming involved was with who would be accountable should anything go wrong in the rescue operation.