A rugby injustice of the highest order would have taken place if the Bulls pulled this one out of the fire. The rugby gods decided to be kind to Franco Smith's men after Rohan Janse van Rensburg broke their hearts last week. Their victory was built on an explosive first half showing the Bulls had no response to. The buffer was enough to keep the Bulls at bay in an entertaining game where six of the seven tries were scored at one end of the field.The halftime score did not do justice to the Cheetahs' dominance. When they camped the Bulls' 22, the visitors battled to live with their tempo and physicality at the fringes.Four first half tries conceded by the Bulls was the end result of some shambolic defensive organisation despite their scrum dominance. Teboho Oupa Mohoje (two), Clinton Swart and Justin Basson were the beneficiaries of the Bulls' defensive generosity even though there was an issue with a suspected forward pass from Reniel Hugo from the preceding lineout. A high octane game is aligned to a high penalty count when the skill set is imperfect but the Cheetahs played a high stakes poker game between four lines that paid off handsomely. It was clear the instruction was to take the game to the Bulls, especially in light of the abysmal first half Nollis Marais' side had against the Stormers last week. The Bulls haven't shaken off their slow start syndrome, unless it's a peculiar case of homesickness. Their next home game is only on March 17 against the Sunwolves. They'll have the bye week to find a remedy for their early game tardiness before it's ruthlessly exposed by the New Zealand sides in April and May.Handre Pollard's boot kept the Bulls in the hunt but their impotency the Cheetahs red zone left a lot to be desired. Jason Jenkins's eighth minute try was the only example of their absent incisiveness. The rangy lock forward collected an excellent short pass from scrumhalf Rudy Paige after number eight Hanro Liebenberg tapped quickly from a scrum freekick.The Bulls' attacking bluntness was highlighted by a long session of play in the Cheetahs 22 in the 55th minute where they couldn't make the most of an overlap and a stretched Cheetahs defence.When they resorted to the pragmatic approach, Piet van Zyl crossed the whitewash in the 66th minute. Three minutes later, Jamba Ulengo crossed over in the corner and suddenly the Bulls looked like champions and the Cheetahs distinctly ordinary.Fortunately for the hosts, the second wind died down as quickly as it came, with Travis Ismaiel's 78th minute knock on deep in his own half knocking the stuffing out of the men in blue.Scorers:Cheetahs: Tries: Clinton Swart, Teboho Mohoje (2), Justin BassonConversions: Fred Zeilinga (4)Penalties: Zeilinga (2)Bulls:Tries: Jason Jenkins, Piet van Zyl, Jamba UlengoConversions: Tian Schoeman (2)Penalties: Handre Pollard (3) - TMG Digital/TMG Sport