 We have proven that Malusi is a regular at Saxon Shebeen he said. Malusi is corrupt to the core."He was speaking at the party s head office in Braamfontein Johannesburg on Friday after Thursday night s shock Cabinet reshuffle by President Jacob Zuma. We know that there were serious allegations against Malusi for having that foreign offshore account and he has not done anything to prove that he does not have a foreign account."He asked why a minister would go around carrying such amounts of cash you can only carry cash like that if it s corrupt money . There is a strong allegation of him staying in a house that was bought for him by the Guptas. Malema added that Gigaba's lifestyle was evidence that he has other income: "Malusi lives beyond his means his lifestyle just gives away that he has extra income and in cash. Malema detailed the position and feeling of the EFF in response to Zuma s Cabinet reshuffle. We called this press conference within a short space of time because of what happened last night We have been engaged in serious different meetings since 5 o clock this morning inside Cabinet and outside Cabinet he said. We are speaking to unions and political formations represented inside Parliament and outside Parliament and are working on a strategy on how best we can remove Zuma as president because what he did last night was not in the best interest of the country. Malema added that the party has also consulted lawyers regarding a vote of no confidence in the president. Should we do that then ANC members should not abstain they must vote with us - we have to try everything we are in crisis. Parliament had 400 members and for the motion to succeed 201 would have to support the motion of no confidence in Zuma said Malema. We still need 70 [votes] from the ANC with the hope that the whole opposition will vote with us. The EFF had also written a letter to the speaker to request a special sitting of Parliament and if she is not going to agree we are going to take her to court to compel her to do so .Malema also made reference to struggle icon Ahmed Kathrada s letter to Zuma last year calling for the president to do the honourable thing and step down. Kathrada was buried on Wednesday. We hope that Uncle Kathy s spirit can inspire a lot more people to speak out we are rejecting [the reshuffle]. We don t agree with it and we are going to do everything in our power to remove Jacob Zuma said Malema. If this doesn t work then there is still impeachment. 