The video in question shows a young woman with her border collie Fluffy on her lap explaining how she went to the SPCA to find the dog she now loves to bits . While she is speaking a muscle man walks into the open plan kitchen behind her wearing nothing but a g-string and running shoes and proceeds to rub cooking oil all over himself while flexing his muscles. The catch line of the advert is there s one member of the family you can choose SPCA . The SPCA Benoni Gauteng loaded the video onto its Facebook page on March 6 and less than a day later had received 16 000 hits. It went up on The Cape of Good Hope SPCA Facebook site on March 7 and within five hours traffic had increased by 663%. The SPCA Cape of Good Hope is the organisation behind the adoption campaign that comprises a further two tongue-in-cheek adverts. We wanted to make people smile and make them aware of the many happy endings at the SPCA says Belinda Abrahams the branch s communications resource development and education manager. We wanted these ads to be more about the good and less about the suffering. So many times the SPCA does win the battle and we get so many animals into loving homes. The Cape of Good Hope SPCA collaborated with Cape Town award-winning ad agency FoxP2. Its creative director Justin Gomes says while researching the organisation of the campaign it became clear that the SPCA is committed to matching animals with personality types and physical environments. It informed the insight for the campaign - with the SPCA you get to choose a family member that totally complements you. We then relied on award winning director Anton Visser to bring our vision to life and his light comedic touch has really provided all the nuance and charm needed to deliver our message in an emotionally resonant way. Abrahams says that their branch of the SPCA has been proud to share the campaign with SPCA branches around the country. This is not the first time that the SPCA has taken a chance with irreverent advertising. During the last national elections the NSPCA launched a spoof election campaign with a series of election posters using the colours of the three main political parties.- TMG Digital/The Times