Perhaps that was partly because and especially after what transpired on Saturday at FNB Stadium neither of these teams can realistically call themselves Absa Premiership title challengers any longer.And yes realistically that statement does appear to include Chiefs.When you are in fourth place on 35 points from 20 games and the team behind you in fifth are African champions Mamelodi Sundowns and they have 33 from 16 then things start to not look so good.Chiefs coach Steve Komphela put on a brave face and said that on points alone he believes the race to be wide open.But again realistically Amakhosi are relying on Sundowns and their most dangerous challengers Bidvest Wits (37 points from 18 games) to slip up drastically somewhere between today and late June.Amakhosi went to seven matches unbeaten against Pirates.But their four points dropped from Saturday s draw and the same result away against Ajax Cape Town in their previous game appear to be a crippling blow even with Cape Town City s victory against Sundowns on Friday night throwing the league race open. There is always pressure. As much as you know the results of your opponents your objective is to get through your own match Komphela said. And our objective was to get three points from this one. We still have a lot of matches to play. And the championship based on the difference in points is still wide open. It might go to the last game of the season. Komphela though could not hide his disappointment that an evenly-contested game might have been decided from the penalty spot with six minutes left.Willard Katsande however attempted a soft clever placing low and to the left of Brighton Mhlongo who saved with his legs. You feel disappointment based on what transpired Chiefs coach said his summary of the game. It s a big match it was never going to be easy. But looking at how it unfolded even in the first half we had a good chance we didn t take [by Joseph Molangoane]. This is a game of small margins we didn t come to the party. And with five minutes to go we missed a penalty. It has clouded my way of seeing things or analysing the match. You feel like you should have done better. I just hate that we could not win the match. Were there possibilities? Yes there were. Molangoane put Chiefs ahead in the 18th minute Wome equalising in the 33rd. - TMG Digital