Their wait isn't over. Sibusiso Sithole who was to take over the reigns on Monday March 13 was their beacon of hope.But exactly a week before he was due to take up the post his life was brutally cut short in a hail of bullets. The Richmond municipal manager lay dead outside his vehicle in an apparent hit.While his family friends and political comrades - including police minister Nathi Nhleko and acting SAPS national commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane - mourn him his death has left an unfilled vacancy at the Umgenu municipal council and their residents back at square one.The small council hasn't had a full-time head honcho since 2010 when the troubled Dumisani Vilakazi was dismissed following a string of scandals and allegations of maladministration.A former senior municipal office bearer recounted on Tuesday how they struggled repeatedly to get a municipal manager over the last seven years. It seems to be a job nobody really wants. Following Vilakazi s departure an official acted until the arrival of Nathi Mthethwa from Mooi-Mpofana [municipality] in 2011 said the official.However Mthethwa who now lives in New Hanover withdrew at the 11th hour before he could even start. He cited job opportunities elsewhere. He is now the chief operating officer in Umhlathuze Richards Bay on the north coast. Again someone acted until the municipality secured the service of Dr Mpilo Ngubane the contact said.But even he was in an acting capacity and only stayed for one year. He left in 2014 after getting a job at the eThekwini Municipality where he is now the head of the municipal academy.The next candidate for the top job was soon identified. Recognising the crisis that was unfolding the KZN department of co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) seconded former Ugu municipal manager Khayo Mpungose. A council resolution was taken and Mpungose accepted the offer. However just before he could start he called [former] mayor Mbali Myeni to say he was no longer available as his company had received a massive contract and that the municipality would not be able to afford his salary the source said.At the time former mayor Myeni's five-year term at the political helm was coming to an end so time was of the essence.Cogta again seconded an official Gabi Gumbi-Masilela a former Municipal Demarcation Board CEO and ex-KZN Housing Head of Department but also in an acting capacity. During a short-lived tenure Gumbi-Masilela had her vehicle stolen from her home. It was later found on the Mozambican border.She left the council and an internal official Sandile Buthelezi head of corporate services acted as the council hunted for Gumbi-Masilela s replacement.Early this year the council appointed Sithole who was due to start next week.Buthelezi confirmed to TMG Digital in a statement on Wednesday that Sithole was due to start on Monday March 13. The municipality is saddened and shocked by the passing of the incoming municipal manager as we were looking forward to having him at the helm of the municipality s administration. A special sitting of Council is scheduled for Monday to discuss a way forward in filling the municipal manager s post he said. - TMG Digital/The Times