The incident happened in the early hours of Wednesday morning. The mob had caught the man after hearing screams from 46-year-old Wileminah Siganunu and her children. They brought him back to her yard where they beat him to death. Sitting a few metres from where her attacker had drawn his last breath Siganunu on Thursday told reporters that she and her family were still battling to come to terms with what had happened. You can t see anything now but yesterday there was a bit of blood there she said looking at the scene. A leather sheath believed to have been holding a large knife was the only remnant of the grisly incident. He had this thing with him said Siganunu dressed in a blue nightdress and a towel wrapped around her waist. The police however did not take the sheath from the scene. I was so scared. I was not even dressed at the time she said. She had been holding her front door shut and screaming for help when she suddenly heard her neighbours shout We got him we got him . She didn t go out to see what they were doing to the man. According to the police he sustained serious injuries including a deep wound to the head. Siganunu said she and her children had been asleep when they heard someone tampering with their butler gate. The pair quickly ran to the door and held it shut and began screaming waking up neighbours. Just moments before that the same suspect had put his hand through their bedroom window stealing a container of earrings. He later dumped the loot at the back of the house. Siganunu said they had been shaken up by the incident especially as they had no male protection in the house. There are three children of school-going age and a little baby and his mother said Siganunu. I always thought that the butler gate was enough but now I am no longer sure. She denied allegations that was targeted because she is a money lender and always has money in her house. I have no idea why they targeted me I sell meat she said with her arms folded. But as locals protest for more housing in the area Siganunu said she and her children were terrified. Even now when the community started their housing protests they threw rocks and we woke up to find our roof had caved in slightly. The kids were so scared thinking there would be a repeat of things which happened she said. Police have made no arrests in connection with the killing at the Siganunu residence. - TMG Digital