Through a flyhalf masterclass from Curwin Bosch that belied his tender years, the Sharks were full value for their fourth win of the season through his 18 points.While there was a marked improved in both sides after abject showings in Durban and Buenos Aires respectively, they could still polish up on their basics. The union saw fit to apologise for the atrocious state of the playing surface, citing the harsh mid-summer drought and the February rains that didn't allow the various strands of grass to recover. It also explains why there won't be any football here in the immediate future. In the previous three home games, a cabbage patch would have done better but it was case of the union losing to the uncontrollables.It didn't stop the sides from playing pragmatic but equally error strewn rugby. The half-time deficit was a case of the Cheetahs peaking too early.While Fred Zeilinga's limited game management was shown up by the younger and feistier Bosch, it was his boot that separated the sides in the first half. In what was a serious difference of class, Bosch outshone the former Sharks pivot when the visitors wrested control.The Cheetahs had former Grey College stars Francois Venter and JW Jonker to thank for their 29th and 40th minute tries. The latter's touchdown was a case of making the most of the 35th minute Coenie Oosthuizen yellow card for a dangerous tackle . It was the same for the Sharks 10 minutes earlier when Teboho Mohoje was also carded for the same offence, from where Kobus van Wyk scored the first of his two tries four minutes later. While the new tackle law comes across as pedantic, it looks after the safety of the players without turning loading the dice firmly in the ball carrier's favour. Jaco Peyper did well to apply the law consistently even though Oosthuizen looked to be hard done by. In that event, it was the Sharks who scored the first try through Lwazi Mvovo in the seventh minute after Zeilinga's third minute penalty. It happened to be a fruitful night for the Sharks' wingers.Van Wyk's 47th minute try from an unexpected Garth April break set the cat amongst the pigeons after a period of dominance from the hosts.The Cheetahs haven't been a particularly good second half side and their worst fears were confirmed by Daniel du Preez's 67th minute try from rolling maul. With the Sharks gaining ascendancy in the collisions, a maul in the 22m was going to ask a physical question the hosts were going to battle to answer. Bosch's howitzer boot then accounted for the Cheetahs' mistakes as they faltered when they need to respond in the affirmative. Raymond Rhule's try came too late in the piece to upset the applecart.Scorers:Cheetahs (30)Tries: Francois Venter, JW Jonker, Raymond RhuleConversions: Fred Zeilinga (3)Penalties: Zeilinga (3)Sharks (38)Tries: Lwazi Mvovo, Kobus van Wyk (2), Daniel du PreezConversions: Curwin Bosch (3)Penalties: Bosch (4) - TMG Digital/.TMG Sport