In a lengthy statement posted to his Twitter account on Monday morning, the Sidlukotini hitmaker said that the decision came after a lengthy period of reflection.Dear friends and fam, The past couple weeks have been hectic. The metro speech was a moment of clarity for me. Brought me back to reality. #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) March 13, 2017I didnt think about the consequences or who would get mad. I just wanted to do the right thing. Inspire the kids to not be slaves to THEM. #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) March 13, 2017After long prayer and conversation with God, I am no longer part of @Mabala_Noise Blessings to everyone there. Thank you for the love. #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) March 13, 2017Dear friends and fam, The past couple weeks have been hectic. The metro speech was a moment of clarity for me. Brought me back to reality.I didnt think about the consequences or who would get mad. I just wanted to do the right thing. Inspire the kids to not be slaves to THEM.After long prayer and conversation with God, I am no longer part of @Mabala_Noise Blessings to everyone there. Thank you for the love. He went on to claim that the label had "taken back" what they thought made him happy. The rapper also alleged that the label threatened his and his family's future.You might see all this material shit and think It makes life easier. It doesnt. Money Its just an illusion to keep us making DUMB decisions. #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) March 13, 2017At this point They have taken back what they think makes me happy. They have threatened the future of me and my family. They want us gone. #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) March 13, 2017You Cant Sell Your Soul bro... It doesnt belong to you. It belongs to God. #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) March 13, 2017You might see all this material shit and think It makes life easier. It doesnt. Money Its just an illusion to keep us making DUMB decisions.At this point They have taken back what they think makes me happy. They have threatened the future of me and my family. They want us gone.You Cant Sell Your Soul bro... It doesnt belong to you. It belongs to God.Mabala Noise spokesperson Mhlo Gumede told TshisaLIVE that he knew nothing about Riky's decision to leave the label and referred us to the rapper.Riky's resignation from Mabala Noise comes just two weeks after he took to the Metro FM Music Awards stage to lambaste the local music industry, and hinted at record labels buying awards.It was the first sign of tension between Riky and Mabala Noise.