But the voices of South Africans on the street were also heard.On a corner at one of the busiest intersections in Johannesburg a man who says he was a political activist and sentenced to jail for his efforts in the struggle stood for hours holding a placard that read Zuma is a traitor not my Pres .He wished to be identified only as Norman. I have been protesting for quite a while now and I just feel that what happened last night should just be the final straw for South Africans and I feel us ordinary citizens should start standing up and speaking out not as part of any organisation but as ordinary South Africans. Norman said he is an IT consultant. I have spent time in prison for politics and this is not what I sacrificed for. And I am sure that many of those who suffered more than I did this isn t what they sacrificed for. He said it was no longer about one person who was bringing the country down but the entire organisation as a whole. I am no longer a member of the ANC. I left the ANC in 2009 when Zuma came to power. Norman is an average South African who echoed what the great and powerful of this country spoke of throughout Friday as the true effect and consequences of the reshuffle sunk home.Political activist Barbara Hogan partner of former minister and struggle veteran Ahmed Kathrada called on all South Africans to unite in a single broad democratic movement to have President Zuma removed.Speaking at a press briefing on Friday Hogan said the people of South Africa should place pressure on their ANC ward councillors MPL s and MP s to ask them what they will do because they had sworn an oath. When we are in as grave a situation as we are in today the Constitution she said holding up a copy of the Constitution this Constitution must take precedence over any lingering notion that party loyalty is above anything said Hogan. This is the moment when ANC MPs need to look into themselves and ask: What is the Constitutional duty that is imposed on us? I call on everyone here not to remain silent not to sit on the fence. The country needs to be taken back Hogan said. A country united is never divided. And this country is not for sale. 