TshisaLIVE: Are you a fan of monster movies?Samuel L. Jackson: Yeah, man, forever! I ve always been a big-thing-with-teeth-chasing- you fan, so I ve always loved King Kong, Godzilla and Mothra. Whatever makes you afraid is great. I m still doing films I went to see when I was a kid. TL: What was it like acting opposite a CG Kong and, in once scene, even facing off against him?SLJ: We asked questions all the time about Kong s height, weight, speed and location. If Packard is sitting in a helicopter, in an open doorway, and Kong knocks the helicopter out of the air, Packard is going to take it personally. So you know he s going to be face-to-face with Kong. That s what I would want to see if I was sitting in the audience. I think about that a lot. What s the most dynamic thing that will make this particular scene work in this moment? And that s Kong and Packard face-to-face with nothing between them but air and opportunity [laughs]. TL: How was it filming in Hawaii, Australia and Vietnam?SLJ: In Hawaii, we shot scenes of the characters trekking through the high grass and the bamboo forest. Sometimes, we d have to stop shooting when tour buses would pass by. Australia s Gold Coast was another area where we did a lot of walking. The streams and rivers were interesting, but there were times we had to stop shooting because there d be some kangaroos hopping through the shot! [Laughs] That s not supposed to happen on Skull Island! TL: In some ways, your character, Packard, is the ultimate soldier.SLJ: Representing soldiers in an honest and earnest way is really important, because of what they do and the sacrifices they make. I had a wonderful kinship with the film s military advisors. A few were Vietnam vets, which is great. I also appreciated the reverence that Packard has for his men. The soldiers initially think the mission is more about babysitting and dropping off the expedition team on the island. But when Packard s men start getting killed, he tries to figure out a way to exact vengeance and save the ones who are left. But I also wanted to convey that Packard does have a heart, loves his men, and becomes unhinged due to the impossible nature of his task. He does believe wholeheartedly that man s been on this planet for a very long time and there have always been things on this planet that are bigger, stronger and faster, but we have one thing they don t have: ingenuity.