Firing the starting gun on Tuesday with the unveiling of six private-sector proposals for a six-hectare site just 140 metres wide City of Cape Town mayoral committee member Brett Herron said the development would be on a scale never seen before in the city. Models of the six proposals will be on display until March 21 at the Civic Centre. A bid evaluation committee will then assess the proposals. This process will take approximately four months due to the technical complexities and scale of the development said Herron who is in charge of transport and urban development. The recommended qualifying bidder or bidders would then sign an agreement with the city council the start of a new six-month process. During this time the preferred bidder(s) will have to secure the financing for the project determine phasing and dependencies and refine the technicalities said Herron. Ideally we would like to see the first work on site to be happening within two years after the contract has been awarded. Herron said the exhibition of models marked a historical moment in the city s urban development. It gives us a glimpse of the future by demonstrating how transit-oriented development can transform Cape Town s spatial reality . Developers were asked in June to come up with plans for the three unfinished freeways on Cape Town s foreshore. They were told their proposals must address traffic congestion and the need for affordable city-centre housing. We expect (the project) to resolve some of the challenges that are currently preventing us from realising the city s full potential the lack of mobility being key said Herron. Mayor Patricia de Lille said the project was the first of five intended to reverse the legacy of apartheid spatial planning and redress the injustices of the past by stopping long travelling distances and urban sprawl by bringing people closer to residential and work opportunities . She added: The excuse by any government that they do not have the resources to deal with apartheid spatial planning is unacceptable. We have shown that the costs can be carried by the private sector following our contribution to provide the land. A similar approach would be followed in four other projects in Paardevlei (Somerset West) Athlone Bellville and Philippi where residents will be part of how we redesign Cape Town . - TMG Digital/The Times