The pair have never openly confirmed the dating rumours and always maintained that they are friends. But after LootLove posted a picture of them - where Reason was giving her a peck on the cheek - some of the people in the comment section said she was the reason for Reason's divorce.Reason had been married for seven years before he and the mother of his children went through a divorce, after which he started dating LootLove.LootLove did not play victim, she went on to say how her relationship is her business and how people from outside should refrain from sharing their opinions as fact.Can't stand humans who constantly play victim.OK fine. I've had it. its time to address you opinionated humans who talk a lot of trash with no factsFirst of all... @LootLove has never been my side chick!!! Never!!!All my 7 years of marriage she has always been someone I know and respect in the industry.My break up with my Ex Wife came almost a year and a half before my relationship with @LootLove as neither if us weren't readyI made an album titled Girls based on my interactions with Girls in search for love or answers about my previous love.I made an album titled Girls based on my interactions with Girls in search for love or answers about my previous love.Since the beginning of our relationship, I've always felt need to explain my position because it has nothing to do anyone. Really.The reality is. We are both popular. And the bullshit y'all feed, gets to a point where it may affect my kids on a normal day at school.I'm happy for anyone to be mad at me for getting divorced. I understand. It's not meant to be like that. But it didn't work out.And now. While forming a good parenting relationship with my ex, we don't need trash opinions about my current being reason we broke up.No one took anyone from anyone. Let it go.Me and @LootLove are finding our way and minding our own. Maybe you should go back to your perfect life and do the same.P. S. And if you really wanna be mad at anyone for ruining a "happy home". Leave my girlfriend alone give me a call. I have the answers.