The 2016/17 HSBC World Sevens Series reaches the halfway point in Nevada with the Blitzboks 17 points clear at the top of the standings and in seemingly unstoppable form.But they go into the rest of the season without Senatla and Smith who have returned to Super Rugby duty with the Stormers and Lions respectively.Despite their strong position after winning three of four tournaments this season coach Neil Powell is refusing to become carried away. The Blitzboks have won nothing yet and a first overall title since 2009 is still a long way off.Instead of thinking about results the coach has emphasised the need for consistency and maintaining momentum the rest should follow if they achieve that. We are aiming among other things to maintain those because if we do it will deliver a good result said Powell. We have lost the likes of Kwagga and Seabelo but if the new guys can step in without disrupting our rhythm we should be okay. They know what their roles are and I have faith in their abilities. Powell pointed to Siviwe Soyizwapi as their key man having replaced Senatla. We are lucky to have experienced campaigners such as Cecil Afrika and Stephan Dippenaar back in the mix but I am keen to see Siviwe respond to the challenge of filling Sea's boots. I think he is going to surprise a lot of people he said.Captain Philip Snyman is playing his 43rd tournament and was also excited by the challenge of seeing how his team steps up and continues its form without two key players. It is hard to believe we are almost halfway through the series but that does not take away any of the fun or commitment from the team Snyman said. The fact of the matter is we still need to start from base even after five tournaments. Nothing that happened in the first four will mean anything here in Vegas Snyman said. We need to start from scratch but have the hindsight of what worked previously. Those are laying a solid foundation building momentum and believing in our structures and teammates. The experienced player who has scored 246 points in his Blitzbok career so far is comfortable with the abilities of the squad despite missing the likes of Smith Kyle Brown Tim Agaba and Senatla. We have lost some personnel but there are some new faces coming into the mix and fitting in very well he said. I think we have prepared brilliantly and everyone is on the same commitment level. There is a good vibe in the squad and we want to get going. The Blitzboks are in Pool A and their first match is against Canada in the Sam Boyd Stadium (Saturday 4.43am SA time).They also play France at 7.42am on Saturday with their final Pool A match against Wales taking place on Sunday at 2.08am SA time.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport