Former Western Province lock Wilhelm van der Sluys has joined the franchise at short notice from his stint at English club Worcester Warriors to deputise for the concussed Mzwanele Zito. And Lions centre Stokkies Hanekom has also arrived in Port Elizabeth on loan pending a full medical assessment.He could be considered for this weekend s clash if passed fit. The Kings also lost lock Irne Herbst to concussion during round one against the Jaguares.And second row stocks are further under strain with Sintu Majezi and Wandile Patuma both nursing leg injuries although they weren t involved in last week s 37-23 win over the Sunwolves in Singapore.So Van der Sluys arrival is timely. We are happy to have Wilhelm joining us this season and we are confident that he will contribute positively to the team and further beef up our good calibre of locks said Kings coach Deon Davids in announcing the loan agreement. Wilhelm will adjust quickly and easily to our systems and we look forward to seeing him in action in Kings colours. The 25-year-old is not huge for a lock standing 1.98 metres tall but only weighing at 103kg but he is mobile and explosive. He also captained WP under-21 and has been working with former Bok assistant coach Gary Gold at the Warriors. The Kings will also be without scrumhalf Louis Schreuder this weekend as he suffered concussion as well. The Cheetahs meanwhile had to prepare for their match against the struggling Sunwolves without coach Franco Smith for the past two days. Smith was at the Springbok training camp in Johannesburg after his formal appointment as backline coach for the next three years. The Cheetahs coach knows that the national position will add to his workload and put pressure on his family life but he believes he can manage both coaching responsibilities successfully. "I'm serving rugby " Smith said. It's going to be a tough ask but I've worked out my plan and worked out how we're going to do it and I think it's possible. I must emphasise that I don't want to neglect one of the two roles. I'm going to try and burn the candle at both ends. "It has been done before. Stephen Larkham is doing it with the Aussies so it's not like an impossible task. I'm looking forward to it ... it's a great honour and privilege. "For me being on the frontline of coaching the whole year is going to really improve my coaching and skills so I think the Boks will benefit if I'm involved in Super Rugby the whole year." - TMG Digital/TMG Sport