"It's been such a roller coaster. Now I've got motivation to get more involved [with politics]," said the 25-year-old, who became a DA member just two weeks ago.Guerreiro, an antiques dealer from Johannesburg, was one of thousands of DA supporters who gathered at the Westgate transport hub in Newtown in Johannesburg on Friday to take part in one of the many anti-Zuma marches across the country.After the march, he and a friend were walking back to their car parked near the Johannesburg High Court. On Albertina Sisulu Road they were attacked by a group of ANC supporters."We had been told to stay away from Luthuli House, and obviously we did. We were two blocks up . making our way back to the car. A man came behind us, screaming 'run, run' and we started running," he said. Guerreiro was pursued by a group of people, some carrying sticks, branches and rocks. He could not escape, was cornered and assaulted."Something hit my head . I hit the floor and people started kicking and punching me." He said he could not recall the entire attack because he "passed out although [I regained consciousness] a few times" during the attack."I believed I was going to die."Luckily for Guerreiro, police intervened and stopped the beating."If it weren't for the police . I don't believe I'd be privileged enough to be here today," he said.He had a cut to his head, which required four staples, concussion, and multiple scrapes and bruises.He spent at least R10000 on medical bills, including the cost of replacing his spectacles.Guerreiro was speaking outside the Johannesburg Central police station, where he opened a case of assault.He said, however, he did not harbour bad feelings towards his attackers."I actually pity them. I say that because, are you happy to have attacked another South African? You were happy to kick me in the face while I was down."I am even more involved now. As a young South African it concerns me that this is the path that South Africa is currently on."We need to stand together as South Africans, regardless of where we come from."Guerreiro said he would be attending the march on the Union Buildings tomorrow.