A minute before a victory that would have breathed life into their weak fight for the Absa Premiership, Amakhosi were left heartbroken by a late Aubrey Modiba strike that was deflected by Tsepo Masilela into his own net. That goal and this draw hurt both these club s title ambitions.But Amakhosi were the more dejected side as they looked good for the three points with the league being their only shot of a silverware this season. In his 300th start for Chiefs, Siphiwe Tshabalala showed that there is plenty of life left in the 32-year-old especially in his roles as the leader and playmaker.Tshabalala was the conductor and lead singer of the Chiefs orchestra. He not only created chances for his teammates but also scored them when they didn t take those opportunities, showing why he has been given the armband. After he was substituted, just before the hour mark, SuperSport were able to pin Chiefs back and steal a point. Tshabalala completed his brace in the first half in fine style, calmly controlling Ramahlwe Mphahlele s cross before firing a strike that left Reyaad Pieterse flatfooted. Steve Komphela left his technical area to applaud his skipper on the other side of the field. That goal helped Chiefs regain their lead after Mandla Masango equalised for Matsatsantsa a Pitori. The former Chiefs midfielder side-stepped Mulomowandau Mathoho before producing a brilliant curler that the young Bruce Bvuma had no chance of stopping. Masango then told those who were excited to calm down as this is SuperSport s house. The stands said otherwise, dominated by Chiefs fans who used to cheer for Masango two seasons ago.But that felt like a lifetime ago as Masango celebrated with his new teammates while his old teammates look to have been stripped of the mettle they wore in their march to be crowned league champions in the 2014/15 season. Even the rain calmed down a bit after Masango s command, changing from the drizzle to nothing more than a spit. The heavens, which threatened with rain for the most part of the day, had opened up after Tshabalala put Amakhosi ahead by lobbing Pieterse who was way off his line. That goal gave Chiefs confidence to bounce back from back-to-back defeats that saw them knocked out of the Nedbank Cup and drop ground in the league race. There was no making amends as Chiefs slump continued . These clashes between the top five clubs might not decide where the league is going but they have the power to decide where it s not going. As things stand, the league isn t going to the blue side of Pretoria nor anywhere in Soweto. It will take a miracle and serious capitulation from Mamelodi Sundowns, Cape Town City and Bidvest Wits for SuperSport or Chiefs to win this trophy. Meanwhile at Goble Park Stadium in Bethlehem, Free State Stars missed out on a glorious chance to move out of the relegation zone after they were beaten 2-1 by visiting Polokwane City in the earlier game. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport