The mystery of the Witwatersrand basin s unparalleled gold deposits has been unravelled ... by ocean scientists.A German-Canadian team that analysed ore samples with high-resolution electron microscopes and 3D software found that gold has its origins in the area s distant geological history when it was covered by sea water.Sebastian Fuchs from the Geomar Helmholtz Centre of Ocean Research Kiel said crude oil and hot hydrothermal fluids played a major role in the formation of gold deposits more than three billion years ago. We were able to find out that fossil oil ... formed by organic matter derived from the first living organisms on Earth mobilised uranium in the basin Fuchs wrote in the journal Precambrian Research this week.Nanoparticles of uranium ore massed together in the oil. Hot hydrothermal fluids similar to those fluids that we find today in modern seafloor black smoker systems (hydrothermal vents) transported dissolved gold and formed oil-in-water emulsions at the site of the deposits said Fuchs. The oil droplets in the hydrothermal fluids initiated the efficient chemical precipitation of native gold and the formation of very complex-structured gold and uranium ore. The Witwatersrand basin which covers parts of Gauteng and the Free State has been repeatedly covered by seawater and experienced episodes of drying out flooding and erosion by rivers in its geological past.The discovery in 1852 of the world s largest gold deposits laid the foundation for the economy of modern-day South Africa but until now it has been unclear how the gold and uranium deposits were formed.The new imaging techniques used by Fuchs and his team resulted in a visualisation of the ore-forming process in which oil plays the dominant role in the distribution and concentration of metals. With our method we have been able to show remnants of fossil oil entrapped in gold for the very first time said Fuchs. We are surprised to see such an intimate spatial relationship between the oil products and the metals. We hope that our study gives new impulses to industry and science to explore new mineral deposits. Perhaps it is possible at some day to extract gold and other metals from mined crude oil. -TMG Digital/TimesLIVE