The 26-year-old first-born son of Nick Mthakathi Durandt sobbed uncontrollably as he struggled to speak to TMG Digital about the sad death of his father the South African boxing trainer and legend.Durandt 53 was killed in a motorbike accident while travelling on R712 between Clarens and Bethlehem in the Free State.He was rushed to a nearby hospital in Bethlehem where he was certified dead on arrival. He died of internal bleeding.Damian Durandt who was licensed as his father's assistant trainer at the age of 14 was at his father's bedside when Durandt died. I am a shadow of my father he said on the phone before hanging up unable to speak further.Durandt loved his sons Damian and Storm. When SA s greatest boxing trainer received a Lifetime Achievement award from Boxing South Africa in Durban in January he dedicated it to them.Durandt said then: Ladies and gentlemen I dedicate this award to two people in my life my boys at home Damian and Storm for giving me the time that I needed to produce all the champions and allowing me to steal most of their life from them. I also want to thank my 27 international champions my 97 South Africa champions and my 38 world champions. Only three months later the pulse of this charismatic flamboyant straight-talking and at times controversial trainer had been halted by death on a motorbike.The tributes have poured in since his death.BSA Chief Executive Tsholofelo Lejaka said that Durandt s departure will certainly leave a big void in our sport at a time when the trainer had renewed his licence and was planning a return to boxing. What he achieved in his illustrious career can only be described as legendary. No other South African trainer has produced nearly as many national international and world champions as he did Lejaka said. Most heartbreakingly Nick s departure happens at a time when he had just announced his return to become a trainer again and produce even more champions. We dip our banners in honour of this fallen field marshal of our pugilist forces. He shall be remembered as a skilful trainer and a passionate mentor a true patriot and fearless flag-bearer who conquered countless global battlefields in defines of national pride a gallant sport activist who was never scared to talk truth. Our heartfelt condolence goes to his family friends loved ones and the Crusaders Motorbike Club who were with him on his last journey. The entire nation is certainly in pain. In him we lost a star whose glow was yet to shine even brighter. Durandt joined the Crusaders Bike Team which later became president of after he quit boxing last year.New Sports Minister Thulas Nxesi told TMG Digital: We express our heartfelt and deep condolences to his family friends and those who were touched by the late Nick Durandt s magnanimous talent. Though words cannot be enough to express our condolences to the Durant family we hope they find comfort in the messages of support given to them by the sports fraternity and the boxing family at large. As part of our tribute to Nick Durandt the Ministry of Sports and Recreation strives to continue to support boxing and further ensure that it continues to grow as well as respect the sport. Our prayers and thoughts are with the Durandt family during this time. Some fellow trainers did not like Durandt. Some accused him of stealing their boxers because he had the backing of the business sector.The situation was worst in East London. Many boxers from there including Masibulele Hawk Makepula Zolani Last Born Tete Simpiwe Golden Master Nongqayi Simpiwe V12 Vetyeka Mabhuti Macman Sinyabi Lusanda Mexican Komanisi and Thabo Sonjica relocated to Johannesburg to team up with Durandt. This left the Eastern Cape dry of talent.The last boxer from the Eastern Cape who Durandt guided to victory for a title was Sonjica who won the WBC International Silver Featherweight belt with a knockout of George Krampah at Mdantsane Indoor Centre on June 13 2015.Moruti Baby Face Mthalane who won both the IBF and IBO Flyweight strap under Durandt s guidance left his mentor when he retired.Mthalane who still holds the IBO diadem is now with trainer Colin Nathan whose first assignment with the boxer from KwaZulu-Natal will be at Wembley Arena on Friday when Mthalane defends against Genesis Libranza from the Philippines.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport