This is despite him seeking answers on why he scored so badly during the interview process that saw him replaced earlier this year. Sithole told TMG Digital he would approach KwaZulu-Natal cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube if he does not get clarity on how he scored so badly.Sithole who has been replaced by former Transnet port manager Sipho Nzuza wrote to the eThekwini municipality seeking an explanation as to how he was scored the fourth lowest among the interviewed candidates. This was despite the fact that Sithole has extensive experience in local government and several qualifications including two master s degrees and is studying towards a PhD in major developments. It was also the job he held for five years before his contract ran out in December 2016.But he has not received any response from the municipality more than three months after his contract expired.Sithole said on Tuesday that if he does not get answers from the municipality he would "have to ask similar questions from the MEC [Nomusa Dube-Ncube] as to whether she also applied her mind to these issues". You can t say that someone who has my experience in a local government context and who was involved in crafting the local government legislation even at national level scores less than other people. It s impossible said Sithole.He also questioned the credibility of the interview process. What else would you be saying that I lack if you are objective and we have always been fighting that we must professionalise local government which means that you must give credence to people who have been in the field he said.But Sithole has made it clear that he does not want to go back to his old job because of the toxic environment in the municipality. I am not raising these things because I want to go back there because the environment as far as I m concerned is too toxic. But there must be a credible process that guides issues. The municipality he said was paralysed as many senior people were resigning and the question is why and who will be left behind". We need credible administrators all the time for the functioning of the municipality. I still need answers politically as to is this how the process should be done. The process as I say was not credible. Sithole said according to regulations there must be an independent person who is a local government expert during an interview process for a senior position like that of a municipal manager. That s why I am still saying that I want to understand from them that if somebody looks at our CV will they arrive at the same conclusion that they arrived at he said.Mayor Zandile Gumede's spokesman Mthunzi Gumede confirmed they had received a complaint from Sithole but the municipality has decided not to discuss the matter through the media but through proper channels.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE