Heyneke Meyer too offered it as part of the explanation for an All Black victory over South Africa.It came up again over the weekend, triggered by the Cheetahs' defeat by the Chiefs two weeks ago, then the Stormers defeat by the Crusaders on Saturday. And it's worth thinking about as a possible area for our teams to improve.First, how would we know if fitness is an issue? Up to now, people's subjective assessment is based on the fact that we are often competitive against New Zealand teams for 60 minutes, and then either fade or get blown away in the final 20. The Chiefs-Cheetahs match was a typical example of this.But that could be a little misleading, because other factors might explain it. First, substitutions are made around that time, and if players coming on are simply better, or if a team is able to change its tactical approach with new players, the result will be:a) An opening up of the game on the field with fresh legs executing new tactics against tired legs.b) An opening up of the scoreboard if that execution is successful.In this scenario, the difference between South African and New Zealand teams is not fitness but the quality of 23 players rather than 15, and the ability to adjust tactics mid-game. A second possibility is pacing. Just as you have to measure and manage your pace if you run 10km, rugby players have to manage their efforts over 80 minutes to finish as strongly as they started.Watching South African teams, I get the impression they often start with the pedal firmly to the metal, so to speak. At 160km/h, inspired by passion and a willingness to die for the cause (it's the South African way), we thunder into the opposition with a ferocity that keeps us competitive, but which we pay for later!Right now we play in a manner that is unsustainable. We are like an irresponsible student who depletes the monthly budget by the 23rd and has to eat Salticrax for a week, while the neighbour continues to dine out as a result of better planning.We might well be just as fit as the opposition - our budgets are the same - but spend that fitness inefficiently throughout.The third possibility is that our conditioning is indeed inferior. Sadly, this is a real possibility, partly because New Zealanders invest so heavily in analysing rugby and are thus more likely to have identified innovations in training that might give them this advantage.The way you would know this is to analyse movement patterns in matches - how often do players sprint, jog and walk? How long are activity cycles where the ball is in play? What is the average rest period after each activity cycle? Within each activity cycle, how often will a player tackle, ruck, run backwards, sideways, and forward, and at what speeds?Then you'd have to compare that with training sessions, and ask if these replicate match demands?When I was with the South African Sevens rugby team about six years ago, we used GPS devices to do this, and discovered our training sessions were not quite replicating our matches. The rest periods were too long, the activity cycles too short, and their intensity too low.Based on that data, changes could be made. Not that fitness was ever an issue for that team - the players are exceptionally conditioned - but if it can improve, then it should be improved. I don't know what our Super Rugby teams are doing in training. I don't know if it differs from New Zealand teams.The three possible explanations for a fitness deficit are hypotheses waiting to be tested. The point is that if we don't explore it analytically, we can't hope to improve it.It seems a relatively easy win, too, something to tick off before addressing the next issue.