Once known as the Happy People the Ghost have had few reasons to be happy about this season.That misery is compounded by the fact that this year the club is celebrating their 80th anniversary.Their performance in the Nedbank Cup has shown a team driven to make up for the past disappointment and give the club something shiny to celebrate that milestone with.Coach Kjell Jonevret had to inspire his players and ensure that they didn t drop their heads after conceding with just three minutes to take the match to extra time as 90 minutes ended 1-1. We told them that this is our game and we shouldn t bow down to them Jonevret said. We told them to listen to the people around them (the fans) and make them happy. The players responded and secured passage to the last four joining Chippa United Golden Arrows and SuperSport United.The Buccaneers will learn who they will face in the draw to be conducted in Randburg on Monday. Despite the victory Jonevret wasn t entirely happy. We talk about critical phases of the game after you ve scored (and the last 10 minutes of the match) Jonevret said. We were not good in those periods. We were too sloppy with the ball and should have kept it better. It was close and we conceded in the last three minutes."I am proud that we were able to come back to win the game. The players wanted to win this match so much which is why they were nervous in certain moments. But the most important thing was to stay in the cup and we did that. The club s immediate focus now is to try and keep their record of having always finished in the top eight in the PSL-era intact.Ninth placed Pirates are just two points out of the top eight bracket. But the more concerning issue is that the club is just six points ahead of bottom-placed Baroka FC. It s going to be a hard race because you can see that there isn't much difference between the clubs around us and those at the bottom Jonevret said. All the teams down there have to get points so that they aren t relegated. Hopefully this win will give us confidence going forward because these guys have played a lot of football and they are a little bit nervous."We just have to fight on. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport