The rapper hogged headlines after reports stated that Solo's CD sleeve artwork for his Dreams.B.Plenty album looked "too" similar to US artist David Brewster Jr, but reports at the time claimed it was David who copied Solo's work.In a lengthy Twitter rant, the rapper addressed the issue, after a person lambasted him for saying David was an artwork thief.Solo was not in the mood, though. Some dude commented on Instagram today saying he doesn't fuck with me anymore cos I accused Dave East of stealing my artwork... 2 things Lol this nigga says he doesn't fuck with me cos I said Dave East copied my artwork. My response was "where'd you EVER hear me say that?"He responds by sending me links I could give a fuck about an article! How do you KNOW I said that?</br> You know how much BS is written daily?In addition to saying he couldn't care less about the 'guy', the rapper went on to explain how the people shouldn't be believe everything that they read. 1. Fuck that dude. He isn't a fan anyways. </br>2. You should know by now that you can't trust everything you read.If you didn't hear me say it, it's alleged. These are the times we live in now. Holding me to something u read about me doesn't make senseSolo said that while he is not concerned about the articles, he found it "ridiculous" that other publications just ran with the story, simply based on the fact that he said his artwork was out first.He went on to question the accuracy of the article and explained his "involvement" in the creation of the story, before warning people not to be gullible. I honestly couldn't care less about the article. What I found funny was all the other blogs and publications that ran with it and added shitThey continued to say even Dave East copied my album cover. Their evidence was my stating that I put my artwork out 1st. Very ridiculousThe story they ended up running with basically spoke about the Cassper/Kanye "same stage" situation, saying the US is copying our shitI told them that we put out the preorder of the album, with album cover, in June. Dave East album was announced much later...I once got a call from someone at Sunday Sun, who asked me if my cover for DreamsBPlenty was "inspired" by Dave East's album cover I saw a headline that said "SA rapper, Solo, accuses US artist of stealing his cover art". Da fuck?!Just be aware. Not everything you read is the truth