 We are not going to be bullied by anyone he said. Not even that uniform from Pep Store which they wore at Luthuli House or the so-called Youth league will scare us. They will not scare us or anything of that sort. Malema said that the ANC Youth League should not hijack the #ZumaMustFall movement in a rowdy manner like they did during Uncle Ahmed Kathrada s memorial in Durban . They won t do it here I can tell you that. We won t play like that he added. The issue of dictatorship we warned about it a long time ago. There has always been temptation for dictatorship in an attempt to compromise a democratic country. He said in response to the apparent threats to protesters.In response to a question about the feasibility of the Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete moving into the presidency Malema did not mince his words. The removal of the president and what happens after is actually clearly outlined in the constitution therefore the coming in of Baleka Mbete is not because of her capabilities but it s an accident of history that the speaker will have to act for so many days and then from there we will elect our president. I don t think she has what it takes to be the president even after President Zuma. He suggested that the police force was like Zuma captured and therefore could not be relied upon to fairly enforce the law. No one is going to take away our right to protest peacefully in a violent manner and the SAPS will not do anything because they are also captured Malema said.The firebrand leader took shots at wavering ANC MPs who say they are scared to support the no-confidence motion by saying that losing their jobs is not going to kill them. And you are scared to save a country because you want to keep a job he said. That s not an ultimate price. You can t be scared to lose your job because the ultimate price is death: they are not going to kill you they are going to take your job. The UDM leader Bantu Holomisa got into the act by lashing out at a question relating to the president s birthday coinciding with the planned march saying that: We never had anyone talking about the birthday of Zuma. After all these political parties are saying Zuma must go. So that means we don t respect him. We owe him nothing. 