Within hours of the accident that claimed the lives of brothers Chris and Gerrit Basson in Randburg, a flower wreath marked the spot where the two men had died.In the days that followed, the small area was cleaned, the grass cut and a steel cross replaced the flowers. A small garden was also planted with a Jesus thorn bush and some roses."Sometimes I sit at the garage and look down on it. Then I go down and cut the grass and give the plants water," says Christine Basson, the boys' mother."I don't want this to be one of those memorials that become forgotten after a while. This has a message and it is that speed and arrogance kills." Chris and Gerrit died on the evening of August 14 last year. That night Chris had gone to pick up his brother after his car broke down.On the way home they were T-boned at the corner of Beyers Naude Drive and Monkor Road.Gerrit, 41, was the father of twins John-Pierre and Jeanne, both 17, and Chris, 38, is survived by Mia, 10, and Qian, 8.The memorial is just one of thousands on the nation's motorways, marking places where people spent their final moments, clinging to life.It is not just flowers and crosses that make up these memorials. Sometimes it is motorcycle helmets, a car raised on a pillar and in one instance a traffic circle.They are not unique to South Africa - other countries have them, too.In Australia, it is believed that one in five fatal accidents is memorialised at the crash site.Some say they are a distraction to drivers; others say they remind motorists to be careful."We don't take down these memorials because we view them as a very emotional issue. How can we say no to a family mourning? As long as it doesn't distract motorists," says JMPD chief superintendent Wayne Minnaar. Retired transport consultant Wendy Watson says Sanral has a policy of removing crash site memorials on national roads when the grass is cut along the highways.But she adds that memorials have been used successfully to raise road safety awareness in New Zealand."Let's say you have a taxi accident with 11 dead. Imagine the impact of 11 white crosses at the scene of the accident."ER 24 paramedic Werner Vermaak is hoping for a quiet long weekend as Easter traffic starts to pick up."When we see patients at a crash we see them at the worst time of their lives and we often don't get their names."With these memorials there are often photographs, that show them at a happier time. We have a face and a name to the crash," he says.