The Bavarians, who have now won 27 German championships, are on 73 points with Leipzig on 63 after they were held to a goalless draw by Ingolstadt earlier in the day."It is amazing what this team did again this season in the Bundesliga," said retiring Bayern captain Philipp Lahm. "It is not a given that we will always march through the league like we did this season."Bundesliga leading scorer Robert Lewandowski netted twice to take his league goal tally to 28 and David Alaba, Thomas Mueller, Arjen Robben and Joshua Kimmich were also on target as Bayern rode roughshod over the hosts.The Bavarians had promised to bounce back following their mid-week German Cup semi-final defeat to Borussia Dortmund and last week's Champions League exit to Real Madrid.They had also failed to win either of their last two league matches, going five games without a win in all competitions as their potential treble-winning season turned into a one-title affair."I am extremely happy and we deserved the victory," said coach Carlo Ancelotti. "It was an amazing experience and I want to thank the fans and the club. Now is the time to celebrate."There was no self-doubt within Ancelotti's team on Saturday as they scored three times before halftime, knowing Leipzig had failed to win their match.Bayern finished off the relegation-threatened Wolves with three more goals in the second half, when the hosts were reduced to 10 men following the dismissal of former Bayern player Luiz Gustavo."The league is the most honest of titles," said Bayern CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. "And now we have won it for the fifth straight time. That is something unusual and amazing."We will have a good party tonight and then on the last matchday with the fans. I played 10 years at Bayern and won two league titles. Now we have done it five times in a row. Outstanding."Borussia Dortmund remained in third place on 57 points following their goalless draw against Cologne. Hoffenheim, two points behind in fourth, can move back into the top three with victory over Eintracht Frankfurt on Sunday.Bottom club Darmstadt 98 beat Freiburg 3-0 to earn their third straight win and give themselves yet another lifeline as they are eight points below the relegation playoff spot.Werder Bremen made it nine wins in their last 11 games with a 2-0 win over European rivals Hertha Berlin to move into sixth place, a point behind their opponents.