The latest revealed that commercial pilots in the US have an incidence of depression about twice that of the regular population.This is puzzling. Why should 13% of pilots be depressed? It's not like they have to sit in economy class or find a place in Dubai airport to sleep at 3am with their hand baggage under their heads, hugging their duty-free Chivas like a teddy bear while exploited workers from Pakistan try to sweep around them. But perhaps it's also a strange assumption to make that there is a direct correlation between people's jobs and their propensity to be blue.Consider Simon Allison, the official catfood and dogfood taster for Marks &amp; Spencer's, a job description that might make you or I reluctant to leave our beds on those cold wintry mornings, but not Simon. He loves his job. His favourite flavour is Organic Chicken and Veg: "It has the taste of chicken and some red flavours - heart and liver. Then you get a mealy, green pea, pulse aroma and sometimes a sweeter note from the carrot. You have to chew it a bit."Am I more surprised that Simon is cheerful in his job, or that the pump attendant at my local garage, who rises at 5am and travels hours before he even starts earning minimum wage, still manages to smile at 4pm and once chased after me to give me my change? People are astonishing.For years I've been pursuing a theory that there are three general categories of bad job, each of them formerly real jobs:The prince was encouraged to form a close emotional bond with his pal, because when he misbehaved and his whipping boy was whipped in his place, it was only the prince's guilt and compassion that would form an effective deterrent for future misbehaviour. I imagine Prince Charles's whipping boy would have a pretty good time of it. I imagine Joffrey Baratheon's would not.But I suppose all people, sin-eaters and leech-gatherers and whipping boys, managed to get through their days by finding some purpose in their work, thinking themselves into the fabric of society, half convincing themselves they offered some benefit to their world.This week I was looking at the paid stooges of Twitter, the individuals receiving money to tell lies they don't believe, to defend the indefensible, to do their paltry best to persuade us that they mean it, uttering the empty words dreamed and crafted by the grey mandarins of Bell Pottinger in London, awash in an irony that they can't possibly enjoy. I wondered how they make sense of it to themselves, how they persuade themselves that it's worth it. It occurred to me that it's not only the poor who do the worst jobs in the world.