Kaizer Chiefs philosopher-coach was at it again in his side s pre-match media briefing for their Nedbank Cup quarterfinal against SuperSport United at FNB Stadium on Saturday evening (6pm) comparing stacking plastic chairs to the end of a league season.Komphela was asked how much confidence Amakhosi have gained from a 12-match unbeaten PSL run as the season hits boiling point. If you are given a task to build a castle out of plastic chairs you put one on top of the other and they pile high Chiefs coach replied. They are not going to drop because they go high they drop because you become anxious. The comment drew a knowing chuckle from the gathered media who all but broke out in applause.And there was a lot of sense in the statement too (mostly) as the coach elaborated: If you focus on the height of the chairs you re going to start shaking. Do what you have been doing when you were at number 10 15 18 20 25 30 40. I ve just broken the record 46. OK let me put two more. Relax. Don t focus on what has happened. It s gone it counts for nothing. What is important is the next one. We don t count how many games we have gone. There are people who have achieved more than what we think we are going through. It s nothing my man at Chiefs. We haven t achieved anything. We can even go 30 matches unbeaten but to someone who has won 31 it means nothing. So we have not achieved anything. But that we are having a good run great confidence to them (the players). When we approach matches we hardly mention the run. We focus on our game. We want to perfect the way we play. When you focus on perfecting this that you are building you re not going to care much about the successes. Those are processing goals towards the major success. If you wan to have a perfect diamond you don t care about the heat. You want to have it crystal clear. And you can never reach that you can only reach that at the end of the season. So the heat that you go through you re not going to shy away from you re not going to celebrate it because the end is in May. What has happened before then counts for nothing. So forget the plastics. Just concentrate on putting one after the other. And as soon as we say Sir we ve run out of chairs you say Adios Amigos done . - TMG Sport/TMG Digital