The birthday bash held in Kliptown Soweto comes in the midst of trying times for the president who faces a possible vote of no confidence in the coming weeks.Zuma spent the celebration dancing along to Maskandi traditional music groups who performed in Kliptown Soweto. It s a first time for me that on my birthday the party decides to do something for me Zuma said. When I heard of the plans I thought Who am I? I am nobody. I am nothing. I didn t believe it. It s usually my children who just buy me cake. I was shocked when I got here to find all these people here he said.Some young women in the crowd responded by shouting We love you Daddy. MK leader Kebby Maphatsoe said Zuma s April birthday was fitting given the historical ties the party has to the month including the birthday of Oliver Tambo and the killings of the struggle stalwarts Chris Hani and Solomon Mahlangu. You belong to those giants Comrade President Jacob Zuma he said.According to Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane over 25 000 attended the festivities.A large marquee draped in the ANC s yellow black and green colours housed the majority of the party goers. They arrived at the venue in buses and mini-bus taxis.Many of them wore ANC T-shirts with Happy Birthday Msholozi printed on the back.Both young and old came out in support of the embattled president.Mokete Letho an elderly resident of Freedom Park said she had come by taxi to the celebrations. We are really happy and we were glad to witness President Zuma hand out the beautiful gift he gave away today she said referring to a vehicle Zuma gave to the mother of Ontlametse Phalatse. The 18-year-old died on Tuesday night after suffering from progeria a disease that causes rapid ageing.A young woman who identified herself as Ntokozo said Wednesday proved that Zuma is a president for all South Africans. People judge Zuma [but] the stories he told us shows that he isn t a president for a selected few but he is a president for all of us. He was grateful. Someone else wouldn t have acknowledged us but he did that. We love him she said.Asked how she felt about the large anti-Zuma march held earlier in the day in Pretoria she replied: Was there even a march? 