Lego, Scalextric sets, drones, you name it, are being snapped up by people with jobs and mortgages, Nespresso machines and gym memberships.It goes without saying that most of these people are men, and that they fall into the category of the ones women (looking for suitors) automatically avoid.It's just one of those unspoken rules that females absorb by osmosis: point one on the Alarm Bells List of things that should make you run a mile.It's not so specific, the Alarm Bells List, of course. Until this moment, we weren't aware there were men who spent R8500 on a Scalextric set, but we know the type. (arguably less weird).There are universal deal-breaking signs - but they're not necessarily what you think they are. In brief:A special mention for drone owners. So not just owning the latest version of a model boat (also odd), but an aggressive, space-invasive toy that makes you think of voyeurs and flashers. Bluetooth headsets, for some reason, give us the same bit-of-a-woman-hater message.Cleavage gazers. That's just your basic lack of sophistication indicator. Also anyone who leches after - or, God forbid, touches - the waitress, and all related behaviours.Divorced men who talk about their status as a loving single parent within three minutes of introducing themselves. They say: "My number one priority is my kid's happiness." You hear: "I am an amazing man."Funny made-up accents. Like actor Tom Hardy's. What are you dealing with? Certainly not a GSOH (Good Sense of Humour).Men who have a "passion" they take so seriously that it overrides everything else, no matter what. No unforeseen turn of events will stand in the way of their regular poker night or golf fourball. That's the selfish Alarm Bells sounding while you try to think, "lovely that they care so much about something".Never quite getting to the bar to pay for that round. Not just the obvious issue with being tight, but zero shame.Fastidiousness around food. Those politicians gamely chomping down on giant sausage rolls at 11am are on to something. The bloke who doesn't really like food, or has a lot of caveats - somehow worrying.Squeamishness. Any anxiety around bodily functions, in particular in the context of things that happen to women in the natural course of events.Eager eviscerators. So he is clever and can take down the misguided dimwit with one slice of his razor tongue. Exhilarating. None the less firmly on the Alarm Bells List. He is Not Kind.Personal vanity. A man shouldn't mind if his children mess up his hair. Perfect white teeth - instant Alarm Bells.Really minding being talked across. I mean, nobody loves that, but if it's actually causing rage, if he feels compelled to ask someone to not talk over him: not a good sign.A finely tuned awareness of their health. Naturally, you don't want the opposite either, but men who take their health very seriously are the ones who need this and that and they'd rather leave early and ... Alarm Bells.Men with pudding-bowl haircuts and home-trimmed fringes, who always wear the same clothes and their top buttons done up. High risk, you would think. But then along comes some bozo you spot on a TV quiz show, who turns out to be the lovable nerd who makes us question the Alarm Bells List - though not so much that we're putting it away. The Daily Telegraph