Embarrassment has been a big topic ahead of this march. Some have been embarrassed by the lack of embarrassment of their friends. Others have been embarrassed by the idea of making this all about them and their middle-class discomfort, preferring instead to make it all about them and their middle-class mortification. Their Victorian ancestors beam down on them proudly.One group, though, isn't embarrassed. They're the ones about to get richer than God by pushing through the nuclear deal.A few modern Victorians still ask: "Have they no shame?", using the language of a 19th-century dressing room to try to make sense of a 21st-century looter setting his eyes on the biggest prize in South Africa's history.One of those naive souls is outside parliament near me, holding up a sign: "Save the ANC, fire Zuma". Determined to ignore what his eyes tell him, he still clings to the notion that the ANC is being held captive in a tower when in fact it has sold the tower to Russia and is sending the cash to Dubai in brown paper bags.Of course, his isn't the only misinformed banner out here. Over there a guy is holding up a picture of Nelson Mandela and the words, "If the ANC does to you what the apartheid government did to you, then you must do to the ANC what you did to the apartheid government." When I was there in 2015, watching students getting gassed and shot at, that sign might have been relevant. But today it has the opposite effect to the one its waver is hoping for. Today, it serves as a call for perspective. No, it says, we are not there yet. Vote them out because they are irreparably corrupt or because they can't deliver services or education; but don't demand they go because you think this is oppression. That helps nobody.High above us, a drone hovers, drifting against the cusp of sinister. One day it will be frightening. This afternoon it is still pleasant. We look up at it the way people looked at aircraft in 1913.Two EFF fighters in full regalia raise their fists, looking subtly self-conscious as you might when you've worn bondage gear to a wedding.The absence of leadership is palpable as thirst. We'd take anyone right now, anyone with a megaphone and a message. One man, his credentials printed on a union T-shirt, obliges, leading some raw-voiced amandlas and a speech about educated revolutionaries; but it's an underpowered megaphone and only the front row can hear. The tens of thousands shuffle on, good-natured, used to being leaderless, wanting more.Half-hidden in a shaded doorway, a young woman holds a sign reading "Fuck white people", the now-familiar logo designed by Michaelis art student Dean Hutton. She is tired and the sign is drooping. People glance at her and glance away.I know that some people want a tabula rasa in this country, a great resetting of the clock and the balance sheet. From what I've read they understand that this would result in societal and economic collapse but they feel that the ensuing wreckage would still be better than what we have now. They believe that democracy has failed, or that it is inherently unable to improve their lives, and that it is time to knock it all down so that something new can be built.I have my doubts. I don't think that that path inevitably leads to Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge but, without being an expert, I am pretty certain that it produces years of stagnation and regression and the potential for astonishing violence. Blank slates are seductive but they can also become a canvas on which monsters paint their fantasies. What comes next is trial (or show-trial) and error. Finally, once scores have been settled and the wheel slowly reinvented, the country starts a slow and painful crawl back towards the global status quo: generally capitalist, nominally democratic.South Africans don't need to read all the clich s about the inherent flaws of democracy to see its failings: they only need to look at the inequality in this country to see how easily democracy can be manipulated to avoid restorative justice.But for me, it remains the least-worst method of government we've groped towards. And if, like me, you think that democracy is worth maintaining, then showing up is literally the least you can do.Soon, the looters will ask us to show how much we're willing to do to stop them. They will ask us if we're sure that we want democracy, and they'll demand that we prove it. They might call it something official like a "state of emergency" or a "temporary suspension of information technologies", but it will be a question, plain and simple: "What are you going to do about it?"Showing up is a start.