It was a big win for the Glamour Boys because not only did it see them jump from fourth to second on the standings but it also kept Sundowns rooted to fifth place.The games that the top five teams Bidvest Wits Chiefs Cape Town City SuperSport United and Sundowns will play against each other might not decide the league but they could have a big impact on the destiny of the title in May.Chiefs celebrated this victory as if they had won a cup because it was their biggest win this season. It was the first time that they had beaten a team in the top five. It s a clear message that we want to compete Komphela said. By virtue of being who we are at Chiefs you just have to be on top. If somebody wins 19 matches and you have won 18 you ve not achieved. Komphela s tenure as Chiefs coach has toyed with the emotions of the club s supporters.He is yet to win a trophy with them after losing in two finals last season.But the victory over Sundowns gave them a lot to cheer about and be positive going into the final stretch of the league race. As I said in the preview whoever wanted to commit suicide before this match driving back he would want to wait for the next match and ask when is it again?"He would want to get a ticket for that game. That s our mission Komphela said.Chiefs biggest criticism under Komphela is that they retreat to their shells in big games struggling to impose themselves on their opponents and more importantly win them.They took the game to Sundowns on Saturday even though they were a bit fortunate with the winning goal Soumahoro Bangaly scoring in his own net.But such small margins in the past have been against Amakhosi and this has seen them draw games they should have won.They will need to continue with the spirit that helped them beat Sundowns in their last eight games.Three of those games are against sides in the top five the Citizens Matsatsantsa a Pitori and then they end the campaign against the Clever Boys. These games are a six-pointer Komphela said. A win gives you three points and then obviously you put a load on the other opponents."Sundowns have now played 18 games and we got three points from them. They are getting closer (to playing as many games as us) while we are marching on. The top five shows the beauty of the PSL. Sometimes we don t pass compliments on the brand."We focus on things that are more sensational. There has been some great football played in the PSL. The top five teams as is we still don t know who is going to win the championship."What else would you want? Would you want the scenario of (always having a two horse-race like) Real Madrid and Barcelona or five?"Let it be five. The more the merrier. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport