Both local and long distance commuters will be affected by the strike and unions have advised that they should make alternative arrangements.Buses to be affected by the strike include Putco Mgqibelo Mayibuye Buscor Golden Arrow Megabus Mega Express Bojanala Gauteng Coaches Itereleng Ipelegeng Atamelang Autopax Great North Transport ReaVaya Phola Coaches PAL Bus and Greyhound.The Gautrain also sent out an alert on Tuesday notifying commuters that its bus service will be interrupted as a result of the strike until further notice . The train service however will not be disrupted. I appeal to the bus associations and unions that they reach an amicable solution because if there is no solution millions and millions of people are going to be stranded and we do not have a plan B in case there is no solution. If bus drivers ground buses to a halt we are going to be in trouble. Taxis trains and planes are not going to take the space that would have been left open by buses said newly appointed transport minister Joe Maswanganyi.He appealed to bus companies and the unions to reach a solution as a matter of urgency so as to not inconvenience commuters most of whom will be travelling long distances over the long weekend.The strike organised by SATAWU NUMSA TASWU and TAWUSA comes after negotiations between bus companies and these unions reached a deadlock. They [bus companies] need to be genuine in their engagement with us. Workers are demanding social justice. Our members are tired of being exploited and being exposed to deteriorating working conditions " said Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi.Some of the demands bus drivers are making include being paid overtime on Sundays and public holidays at 1.5 times the normal wage rate and double on Sundays as stipulated by the labour law and a 15% salary increase would allow a dignified life for workers . Like typical slave owners employers treat workers like animals driving them to work dangerously long hours with no regard for family time or rest and relaxation time Bus drivers are often forced to work 16 hour shifts because of a system where the hours are spread over ."There are numerous studies which have demonstrated the importance of achieving a good work/life balance for the good of the worker and society as a whole Hlubi said.The union is demanding that workers be given "adequate" time to rest so that they can recuperate and spend time with their families."Instead employers are doing the exact opposite of what every study has demonstrated. Not only is this an abuse of Workers it also poses a huge danger to commuters and the public at large Hlubi added.Satawu spokesperson Zanele Sabela said the unions were still willing to engage the bus companies and had given them 60 hours from Monday to come to the negotiation table. But if by the end of the 60 hours employers have not brought a satisfactory offer to the table then unions will have no choice but to embark on industrial action Sabela said.She said employers have stubbornly refused to relent on demands that they say are stipulated in the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) citing the current Main Collective Agreement as justification . For instance the agreement classifies night work as any work done between 8pm and 3am while the BCEA specifies work done between 6pm to 6am she said.Golden Arrows spokesperson Meko Magida said the bus companies are offering 7.5% "which is above the average rate of inflation and which has been 6.5% over the past year". Regrettably all attempts at finding a lasting solution have been frustrated by trade unions who have demonstrated a lack of will to negotiate in good faith. However we are still hoping that we might find a solution to avert the strike " Magida said.He said the companies are willing to and "available" to engage with the unions."We appeal for leadership of trade unions to overcome their differences and come with a united position and which is reasonable."We must protect the jobs sustain our business operations; grow the economy and create more jobs " said Magida. Magida said there will be no buses operating if a strike breaks out. Some employers will implement a lock-out. The principle of no work no pay will apply Magida said.