In the first few minutes after Jacob Zuma's midnight purge, the Facebook status of columnist Marianne Thamm spoke the feelings of a great many South Africans. It felt as if a Rubicon had been crossed; a temple curtain had torn.But I would respectfully disagree with Thamm. When the sun rose over a post-Gordhan South Africa, the only thing that had changed was the nationality of the landlords.Once, they were Dutch and British. For a while the great-grandchildren of the Dutch and British pretended that the place was independent; but soon they ran the property into the ground and needed Wall Street bankers to keep them afloat, so the Americans held the title deeds for a while. And now, South Africa is owned by a family from India and, it is safe to assume, a handful of Russian politicians and their pet oligarchs.Yes, it's the same old place it's always been.The uproar is familiar, too: that collective groan we produce whenever the predators in power let the fa ade slip and we see them in their natural habitat, urgently thrusting bloody snouts into the steaming guts of a still-kicking country.This, however, seems to be a particularly frightening moment. The feeding frenzy, usually half-hidden by darkness, is happening in broad daylight. We're being shown things we didn't want to see, like who has power and who has almost none. As we discover that the ANC has finished its transition from a liberation movement to a political party and finally to a monarchy, the processes of democracy are starting to look like a cargo-cultish ritual performed by the faithful and delusional.Then again, there is method to the opposition's madness. The DA and EFF do not want Jacob Zuma removed from power immediately because the longer he is president the better they will do in 2019. Indeed, some people suspect the opposition parties have actively worked to keep Zuma in power, calling motions of no confidence or marching on Luthuli House in the full knowledge that such events force the ANC to close ranks and stand by its beleaguered boss - the surgeon deliberately leaving the cancer to spread so that he can look even more heroic when he finally tackles it.And so here we are, in a slightly new place in the same old place. There's a lot of anger and confusion, and crippling amounts of commentary and analysis about what happens next.I'd also like to talk about what happens next.I don't mean what happens after Zuma or 2019. I don't mean what will happen, or what is likely to happen, because I don't have the faintest idea about any of that. Instead, I want to talk about what could happen, what should happen, what might happen if we briefly tear ourselves away from the grim present and turn our eyes to brighter horizons.I know this sounds like the naivety of privilege, but humour me for a minute. God knows, you've humoured worse for the last seven years.Even if we could return to the rainbow nation idealism of the mid-1990s, we shouldn't. Rainbowism is dead mainly because it resolutely ignored the racism and race-based inequality that saturate the foundations of this country like rising damp and which make any new building impossible until it has been dealt with.But what if we updated Bishop Tutu's rainbow with one representing the country we could still have if we made hard choices and had honest conversations? What if, instead of gradually accepting this sordid place as it is, we reminded ourselves of what we want and deserve?What if red represented the blood being shed every day - by men in their war against women; by callous or desperate criminals; by systems that brutalise the bodies of the poor - and a future in which we staunched the flow?What if orange - the colour of the soil - represented a just, intelligent and lasting solution to urgent questions about land? What is the statute of limitations on stolen property? Can land be given back to the dispossessed without threatening food security? Some say that if land is not handed out there will be a revolution, but surely if farming gets any more dangerous or difficult there will be a revolution anyway when the food runs out? Or is this a false dichotomy?What if green stood for money and a commonly accepted belief that leaders shouldn't steal it and that bosses should earn sensible rather than disgusting amounts of it? What if we had an honest discussion about how much corruption we're willing to tolerate, given that corruption is the deal all peoples make with their politicians in order to have their countries run? And speaking of which, can we decide whether we want to be part of the capitalist world with its inherent corruptions or whether we want to start afresh, and if the latter can you let me know ASAP so I can start looking for a job somewhere else?What if blue symbolised water, the stuff that we can't live without but which we're going to get less and less of? And what if we employed experts to manage it so that we don't have to manage without it?What if indigo - a colour added rather arbitrarily to the spectrum by Isaac Newton but now in danger of being dumped by scientists - demonstrated an ability to adapt to new facts rather than to cling on to traditions and beliefs for their own sake? Can we restore intellect and wisdom to public life, and educate our children for an automating world?What if violet, made up of EFF red and DA blue, was a reminder that competing ideologies can and should keep each other in check? What if we were mature enough to find humane and sustainable solutions to hard economic problems, rather than plunging Venezuela-like to the left or goose-stepping to the right towards Trumpian gangster capitalism?Finally, yellow: the colour of cowardice, omitted from its rightful place because fear isn't something we want to acknowledge. But what if yellow could remind us that we've been cowards in the past, that we've avoided tough decisions and taken the path of least resistance? And what if it could remind us that we've also been braver than we ever imagined we could be?Let's be brave again. Then, maybe, the sun will rise over a truly new country.