Speaking as he surveyed the Prince Chichibu Memorial Stadium wreckage that has left the Bulls with just one win from six matches and as the first South African side to lose to the Sunwolves Marais admitted pressure is beginning to mount. I think every coach s job s is on the line. If you win one out of six matches I will always feel that you are under pressure Marais said. It doesn t matter because this is Super Rugby and people expect a lot from coaches. I know that our board has a lot of faith in me but the results need to prove it and we must fix things before our next match at the weekend. Marais added that the Bulls lost their fifth match of the campaign simply because they did not apply some of the basics and they were ruthlessly punished by the opposition who were determined in front of their own supporters. We made too many errors kicking for touch kicking directly out small little things that cost us and they changed a lot of things in the game he said. We are going home where we have a lot of games and we will focus on getting things right for the Jaguares next weekend. The only thing that we can do for now is to get ready for that match against the Jaguares. The main contributing factor for their loss was the late yellow card to midfielder Jan Serfontein and Marais said it cost the Bulls dearly. I have to review it unfortunately it cost us in the end. The last time we played with 14 guys it inspired us but 14 guys today was difficult to defend. I thought it was an excellent tackle by Jamba Ulengo to prevent a try but unfortunately we got a yellow card the Bulls coach said.He added that he is unsatisfied with performances of certain players. I feel unsatisfied by certain performances but you have to look at it as the whole team and at the end of the day we were not good enough to win on the day. The players know that they did not produce the results we have nine games to go in the competition and I think about six or seven of those matches are at home. The supporters must stick with the team because they know exactly what to do to get out of this situation. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport