Poor conditions at barracks could have a negative effect on officers morale, affecting their performance, according to the Institute of Security Studies.A constable s wife at the Herdeshof police flats in Sophiatown, Johannesburg, said: We don t feel safe. People come here to steal. You often find that people break into cars here. Imagine that, people come and steal from the police. The block is in a suburb battling drug addiction and rising crime. The latest statistics for Sophiatown show that robbery rose from 142 cases in 2014-2015 to 239 in 2015-2016.Cases of robbery with aggravating circumstances rose from 457 to 649 in the same period. Most of the garage doors cannot be locked and the lifts at the 15-storey Herdeshof barracks haven t worked for more than a decade. They tried to fix it a few years ago, but overnight the cables were stolen, said a sergeant. Rich cop, poor cop: The glaring gap between the haves and the have-nots in the police forceThe police barracks opposite the Springs police station on the East Rand has not had running water for the past two weeks. We have to take a bucket and walk to the police station to fill it if we want to cook or wash ourselves, said a warrant officer. There had also been burglaries at the barracks, said a sergeant. The lifts were removed in October last year, he added.In 2015, officers at the Alexandra police barracks complained about an intermittent water supply and poor access control. A constable living there said renovations had started, but were moving slowly . Police officers received letters two years ago warning them that if they didn t leave the barracks, they would be charged market-related rentals.At the time, police management said those at the barracks paid 1% of their salaries for rent, capped at R200. The junior officers who live in the barracks after being transferred from other regions said they couldn t move out if they were not provided with alternative accommodation. Police said the letters were an attempt to clear the buildings so that renovations could take place.Police spokesman Major-General Sally de Beer said: Over the past two years the Department of Public Works and the SA P S have held inspections and meetings with members staying at different police barracks. Health and safety in the barracks are a concern to the SAPS and are being addressed. Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies crime and justice programme, said police living and working in poor conditions could feel that they aren t important enough . It could contribute to feelings of neglect and inferiority and that can have a negative effect on effective policing. 