A group of divers realised that the man was missing when they surfaced setting in motion an extensive search. According to sources with knowledge of the search only the remains of the man s legs and wetsuit were recovered by the crew of a fishing boat.The bite pattern in the wetsuit was similar to that of a Tiger Shark.The diver s remains are expected to be examined by a pathologist to help determine his cause of death.Mike Anderson-Reid of the KwaZulu-Natal Sharks Board said that the difference between a shark attack and a scavenging event would be key to understanding what happened beneath the water at Protea Bank near Aliwal Shoal. The critical question is did the event occur while he was alive or had he died from something else and then this potentially occurred while sharks were scavenging. We would have to determine the cause of his death through an autopsy. Getting an understanding of whether or not there is still blood in the tissue. Spear-fishermen have been bitten before but in terms of scuba divers there are not that many that I can remember but it is not impossible Anderson-Reid said.The diver was taking part in a charter run by African Dive Adventures.The National Sea Rescue Institute and police Search and Rescue Institute were alerted to an incident of a diver who went missing at about 1.45pm on Wednesday.NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon said: "According to fellow divers on a charter scuba dive they had been surfacing when the man had disappeared. An extensive drift pattern and sweeping line search operation was conducted . During the search the remains of the body of the man believed to have been bitten by a shark were located by crew of a private fishing boat and the remains of the body were recovered from the water onto a sea rescue craft and brought to shore."A woman who answered the phone at the office of African Dive Adventures who declined to be identified said that she was not authorised to comment about what had happened .According to the company's official website it has been diving on Protea Banks a world renowned shark-diving spot since 1994. If you are an experienced diver and would like to enjoy the thrill of spectacular diving with sharks then you have arrived at the right address the website reads. We will guide you professionally and safely on our reef and let you interact with our sharks and other marine animals without coming to harm. 