The death of Khaya Thobela in hospital brought to 35 the number of deaths since the runup to 2016 s municipal elections. The vast majority of those killed were members and leaders of the ANC in the province. Thobela was the speaker of the Umzimkhulu Municipality and deputy secretary of the ANC in the Harry Gwala region. The high death toll forced KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu to set up a commission of inquiry into political killings, headed by advocate Marumo Moerane. The fresh wave of assassinations has been linked to factional fights in the ANC and it is expected to continue as tensions rise ahead of the party s elective conference in December. Tributes pour in for slain Umzimkhulu speakerThobela was the third senior ANC official to be gunned down in the past two months. In March, Thandazile Phoswa, deputy mayor in Richmond local municipality, was shot at in her home. A few weeks earlier, the municipality s municipal manager, Sbusiso Sithole, was ambushed by unknown gunmen and shot dead while on duty.KwaZulu-Natal police spokesman Nqobile Gwala said a suspect in Thobela s murder was apprehended while attempting to leave the province by taxi on Sunday, and was found with an unlicensed firearm. Sifiso Kunene, a political analyst with the Centre for Participatory Democracy, said there was no doubt that the killings of political leaders in the province had something to do with the simmering tension and divisions within the ruling party. Thobela was touted as a candidate for the position of regional secretary by one of the two warring factions in the elective conference that will be held very soon. Now he has been bumped out of contention, Kunene said. He also said he doubted that Moerane s commission would stop the killings. I think the ruling party leaders need to sit down among themselves and find a solution to the killings. Mary de Haas, of the KwaZuluNatal Peace Monitor, has t e stified at the commission. She says the political hits since the beginning of 2016 have not included those killed in Durban s Glebelands Hostel, where a war between ANC factions has claimed dozens of lives in the past two years. De Haas said: Corruption is rife in local government and therefore people want to get into positions so they can influence the awarding of tenders to their friends, family or business associates. There was a hike in violence against councillor candidates precisely for this reason. Another factor is that the law- enforcement agencies are dysfunctional and/or unstable. The perpetrators of these killings know that they can literally get away with murder. They see the police commissioner come and tomorrow she is suspended. There is a total instability and the criminals are having a field day. The poor police force is leaderless and its members are demoralised, De Haas said. De Haas was referring to the drawn-out suspension of national police commissioner Riah Phiyega and the head of the Hawks, Berning Ntlemeza. KwaZulu-Natal also has an acting provincial police commissioner, Major-General Bheki Langa, who took over from Mmamonnye Ngobeni. The ANC said there was no proof that divisions in the province were responsible for the deaths of its officials. Provincial spokesman Mdumiseni Ntuli said the party was concerned about losing leaders of a high calibre. Thobela was a judicious leader who served with great diligence and commitment in the Umzimkhulu local municipality as the speaker , Ntuli said. His murder is a serious setback and a grievous loss to the movement as he always respected the ANC and was forever willing to be deployed everywhere to serve the masses of our people, said Ntuli. BusinessLive