The Clever Boys are desperate to bring the Absa Premiership to Milpark.On Tuesday night they moved a step closer to realising that dream with a convincing 3-0 victory over Golden Arrows that put them in first place and in the driver s seat after 21 matches. That s one game less than Cape Town City, who are away at Platinum Stars on Thursday, who they now lead by two points.Gavin Hunt hardly sat down here, pacing up and down the technical area and barking instructions. Even the club CEO Jose Ferreira found his seat in the VIP stand hot. He paced behind the Clever Boys bench, separated by a fence, with his hands on his waist. He even shouted, where is the match commissioner after another mistake from referee Chris Harrison and his team. Once he was pointed at Enock Molefe s direction, he asked what s going on.The two men, Hunt and Ferreira, are at the heart of that desperation to bring the league to Wits. That s after all what they were brought from SuperSport United to do.Four years into his tenure, Hunt is close to repaying the club. On Tuesday night he rewarded rightback Reeve Frosler for his good performance against Smouha in the CAF Confederation Cup play-offs with a place in the starting XI. Frosler did enough against the Egyptians to prove that he is a capable replacement for the injured Nazeer Allie. The club s depth has been put to the test in the final stretch.That depth was further tested on Tuesday night with the injury to Thabang Monare less than 20 minutes into the match. The central midfielder pulled a muscle and was replaced by Phumlani Ntshangase with Xola Mlambo waiting in the wings and Granwald Scott sitting in the stands. It s that depth, which Hunt gushes over, that will come in handy in the club s fight to win the league for the first time in the PSL-era. There is also the fact that the Clever Boys find the back of the net regularly. They have the best strike rate in the country.Limbikani Mzava didn t do Arrows any favours by handing Wits a chance to score their 36th goal of the league after he handled the ball in the box. Gabadinho Mhango stepped up and put the hosts in the lead from the penalty spot. Mogakolodi Ngele sealed the result with a thunderbolt and a tap-in to complete a brace within five minutes. In Polokwane meanwhile, bottom club Baroka FC moved off the basement of the log with a priceless 2-1 win over Free State Stars in at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium also Tuesday.Stars are now third from bottom on 22 points after 23 matches, a mere point ahead of the Premiership newcomers Baroka, who are second from bottom.The Baroka win saw Highlands Park, who are away at Maritzburg United on Friday evening drop to the bottom of the log on 20 points from 22 matches.Chippa United continued their winless run after dominating proceedings but failed to capitalise as they were held to a goalless draw by visiting Polokwane City. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport