On Wednesday Barber sat for an hour at a local tattoo parlour getting "Zuma Must Fall" overlayed over the centre of the South African flag on his arm."When I'm 85-years-old I'll be telling my grandchildren that I fought against a bad man " he told TMG Digital on Thursday.Barber said his motivation for his ink was because of the situation the country found itself in particularly with President Jacob Zuma at the helm and allegations that his decisions were being influenced by the controversial Gupta family."We're in a very serious situation as a country. I don't think some people realise how serious it is. I feel we're no longer a democracy anymore. The people who were elected are not making the decisions anymore."If I can get this tattoo and sit in pain for an hour and mark myself for life you can get up and go march. Just do your part. Do what you can do. It doesn't actually matter where you live or what your race or class is in this situation because if our democracy goes away our rights go away. Everyone is screwed in this situation " said Barber.He posted a Facebook Live video while getting the tattoo."Some people have thought it's really cool. Some people thought it was a bit out there crazy and a bit too much. A lot of people think it's a ridiculous thing to do and laughing and going 'What an idiot!'. The reaction is varied but the fact there's a reaction is a good thing."Hopefully it's a platform to continue the discussion " he said.Asked if he would later regret the ink Barber said: "In one way I've got a cool tattoo of when all SA got together and got rid of a disgusting horrible president. This meant a lot to me; to fight for my country means a lot me to. I'll be amped to wear this for the rest of my life."The tattoo artist Bryon van Dyk said he was happy to sponsor the art piece."He told me what he would like the wording and where. He gave me free range to design. I basically just drew up the design and the emblem of SA flag in the middle to give more emphasis on the country. Took about an hour-and-a-half to do it. I understand why he was willing to get it " said Van Dyk.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE