Cassper admitted his big fear on Twitter this week, after being asked by a fan what he was most scared of.Going to hell. When it's all said and done , I just pray I make it in. That's the most important thing to me. https://t.co/bOymwTBPgZ Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) April 5, 2017Going to hell. When it's all said and done , I just pray I make it in. That's the most important thing to me. https://t.co/bOymwTBPgZThe thought of hell must have been scary enough to shake Cassper, who then went on a Twitter sermon about making it to heaven and not putting too much value on material things.Wanna know my biggest Goal? To make it to heaven. All these fancy cars and clothes in this current life is cool bro but they will stay here. Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) April 5, 2017Wanna know why I always win? How many times have they counted me out??? I always win cause I'm fighting a spiritual war and Jesus my sword. Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) April 5, 2017Wanna know my purpose? My purpose is reassure u that anything is possible through God!! When I say anything, I mean anything! Just believe!! Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) April 5, 2017The rapper admitted that he does not usually go to church, except when preaching on Twitter, but still felt he needed to share his views so that someone could learn from it.Wanna know my biggest Goal? To make it to heaven. All these fancy cars and clothes in this current life is cool bro but they will stay here.Wanna know why I always win? How many times have they counted me out??? I always win cause I'm fighting a spiritual war and Jesus my sword.Wanna know my purpose? My purpose is reassure u that anything is possible through God!! When I say anything, I mean anything! Just believe!!Don't know why i decided 2 tweet all these things. Maybe some1 needs to hear that. Hope it resonates. Maybe I'm just reminding myself . Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) April 5, 2017Don't know why i decided 2 tweet all these things. Maybe some1 needs to hear that. Hope it resonates. Maybe I'm just reminding myself .Meanwhile, we sat in the corner going ...via GIPHY