He hadn't been causing a ruckus or harassing the flight crew. He wasn't making threats or trying to set his shoelaces on fire. He was an elderly - or as I prefer to think of it these days, late-middle-aged - gentleman of 69 who had been sitting neatly buckled in his seat, perhaps reading some compendium of medical humour, when strangers came to his seat and asked him to disembark because they needed to make room for four of their off-duty flight crew. The law on this matter is pretty clear, but the gentleman did not comply with the law. Instead, he did that which I believe to be morally right: he said no.They rough-housed him from the flight, striking his head against an armrest, breaking his spectacles and making him bleed but then - and this is where he begins to elevate to the status of my personal hero - he ran back up the stairs to the plane and tried to make it back down the aisle to his seat. Video exists of the man being carried from the aircraft as you might carry a bathtub, but even more moving video exists of him clinging to the door between economy and business, like Odysseus lashed to the mast, dazed, distraught, defiant. "Kill me!" he says. "Just kill me!"These are strong words, but easy to dismiss because they're a little melodramatic. We all know that guy who throws around death metaphors too freely until they lose their impact. But then David Dao says the words that went straight to my heart. "I just want to go home," he says.Once I was in Johannesburg on a day's filthy business. I had been up since 4am to fly there and endure a grisly meeting in which colleagues were at best obstructionist and my own shortcomings had not gone unnoticed. Traffic had been bad, I had the beginnings of flu, things were not ideal with my girlfriend back home and there was a strong possibility she might at that very moment be setting fire to my clothing. All I wanted was to go home. I fought my way back to the airport and arrived not early but not late either.When I tried to check in, I was told the flight was full. How could it be full? Look, here's my ticket, booked and confirmed. Behold the clock: I have arrived within the stipulated and contracted period. How can the flight be full? The flight is not full, because I am not yet on it. The flight, she said, is full.In that moment, I became very small. I became some tiny, barely buoyant object in a storm-sea - an onion, perhaps, or a ruptured tennis ball. I became aware of how deep the ocean was beneath me, how strong the wind, how wild the waters of the world when you are alone and adrift and the universe has removed its mask of civility. I wish I had been that gentleman on the United Airlines flight who raged against his weakness in the face of force, who went not gently but in rage, who made the monsters unsheath their claws and reveal themselves for what they are, rather than shuffle acquiescently and head-bowed to his own demise. But I didn't. I did what my upbringing trained me for: I lowered my head and felt sad and sorry for myself and accepted a voucher against the cost of future flights.Of course that gentleman on the United Airlines flight was going home. You knew that before you heard him say it. Stories are circulating - unconfirmed at the time of writing - that he was a doctor who needed to be in Louisville to conduct some important procedure, but I don't fully believe them, or if they're true, they're irrelevant.No one has ever fought like that to get to their job, or go to war, or even to go on holiday. The Odyssey is about a man trying to return home to his family from Troy, not get there.If the airlines had actuarial tables for the human heart instead of for margins of profit, they would only bump people going away, not coming back, because what could be crueller, less human than to say to someone on the final run home to where they feel safe and their heart at rest that here's another storm to blow them off course, another whirlpool or capricious whim from the gods and there is nothing that they, puny mortals, can do about it?In the face of the Goliath of implacable power, David Dao fought back. It was against the law, but he did it anyway. Let's be more like David.