Motorists had no choice but to wait patiently in a stop-and-go roadblock of sorts set up by a protesting crowd.Citizens across the country came out in their numbers calling for President Jacob Zuma's resignation.Protesters blocked the road and let motorists through at intervals. Most of them had taken the day off work to be there."We told our bosses we are leaving work today. We are standing for change. We are fighting for our jobs. If you look at the economy we are going to hit a recession and business will close. We're pre-empting things before it happens " said JP Lee.Lee and his colleagues planned to move around to protests happening across Gauteng."We are moving around all over. We need to be all over for change. It's the only way we can beat this corruption. We've taken today off unpaid. We're all in."Business owner Elena Siew said enough is enough."The fact that there are protests everywhere shows it's actually beyond enough. We're registered as junk status. That's not fair " she said.Rowan Campbell an entrepreneur said he was concerned about ratings agency S&amp;P's downgrade of South Africa's sovereign credit rating to junk status."When it comes to the economy and starting a business we don't want to deal with junk status."I complain a hell of a lot about Zuma like the rest of the country. I would feel like empty space if I stayed home and did nothing. I'm here to remind the fellow that we're not a dictatorship we're a democracy."Police officers were present and worked with the dancing crowd to regulate traffic. Protesters chanted and sang as they held up motorists before giving cars a chance to pass.Immaneul Ranoshaba said he would be at the Beyers Naude all day."Zuma is not doing anything for the country. He is just taking for himself. I'll be here all day and after we've arranged some celebration where I stay in Cosmos City."Siew said she was pleased to see many positive messages on placards."They're saying 'I love my country' " she said.Others commented however that they were disappointed that the march was so "white". - TMG Digital/TimesLive