Out of the remaining nine remaining matches in the round-robin stage the Bulls will only travel to the Lions and the Sharks which is a situation that Strauss hopes may work in their favour.On Saturday night the Bulls host the Jaguares and the rest of their remaining home matches include ties against the Cheetahs Crusaders Highlanders Hurricanes Kings and Stormers. It s good to be back at our home at Loftus which is an advantage for us. We could have done better from the start of the season but there is nothing we could do about it now but we can start rectifying our mistakes at home Strauss said as they prepared for the clash. We are all in this together equally we are responsible to do well every weekend we want to play well and bounce back and we are fully aware that we are not in a good space at the moment. We are not going to play for vengeance and anything like that but to play to play for the Bulls. Coach Nollis Marais who has been under pressure as a result of Bulls poor season where they have only won one match from six said he will rotate the squad to give others a chance. We will rotate the squad down the line with certain guys taking strain and certain guys needing more game time he said. For example sometimes I will put Jan Serfontein back on 12 and someone on 13 but at the moment we are not in that position and we don t need to be in that position. Unfortunately he (Serfontein) will not be available next weekend and we will have to make changes with Jesse Kriel possibly playing at 13. If you look on the hooker s side Adriaan (Strauss) is playing about 80 minutes at the moment and maybe we need to play him 50 and bring Jaco Visagie to give him game time. If we have an injury to Adriaan we will definitely play another hooker who has not played much. Marais said the Jaguares are a good and dangerous side and the Bulls will have to be at their best to beat them. They are very good if you are going to play incorrectly against them they are going to punish you. They offload from anywhere they play a certain style of rugby that makes them very dangerous. If one or two decisions went their way they could have beaten the Sharks in Durban last weekend and they are much more dangerous than last year. Bulls: 1. Pierre Scoeman 2. Adiraan Strauss 3. Trevor Nyakane 4. RG Snyaman 5. Lood de Jager 6. Nic de Jager 7. Jannes Kirsten 8. Handro Liebenberg 9. Piet van Zyl 11. Jamba Ulengo 12. Burger Odendaal 13. Jan Sderfontein 14. Travis Ismael 15. Jesse KrielSubstitutes: 16 Jaco Visagie 17 Lizo Gqoboka 18. Martin Dreyer 19. Jason Jenkins 20. Marnus Schoeman 21. Rudy Paige 22. Tiaan Schoeman 23. Warrick Gelant- TMG Digital/TMG Sport