Scrumhalf Dewaldt Duvenage will start in place of the concussed Jano Vermaak while tighthead Wilco Louw returns from injury to unseat Springbok tighthead Frans Malherbe in the starting lineup. They are the only changes to the starting side that beat the Cheetahs 53-10 at Newlands for this weekend s highly anticipated clash against the New Zealanders. Scrumhalf Justin Phillips and lock Jan de Klerk are the only changes to the bench. It s up to us as a group now to understand who we are facing and remember what happened last year and measure ourselves against that this weekend Fleck said. The Chiefs under Dave Rennie haven t changed much in the last four years and over the period since they won the Super Rugby title. They are physical and play with extreme intensity and tempo which was what caught us out last year. When we tried to fight back in that quarterfinal they just lifted the tempo further."They are tactically smart and pride themselves on their aggression. We will certainly have to take a step up. We haven t faced a team as good as them this year. The Chiefs and the Stormers are both undefeated in what is a repeat of last year s quarterfinal which the New Zealanders won 60-21. Despite the ease with which the Chiefs dominated last year s clash the Stormers form that has seen them score 29 tries in five matches has not escaped the visitors. We are well aware that the Stormers have good athletes across the board - strong tough guys prepared to mix it up Chiefs skipper Aaron Cruden said. But this year they seem to be moving the ball around more. We are just going to have to make sure that we are ready for whatever comes our way. "We are aware of certain [key] players but don't like to highlight them too much because to be playing this level you have to be a good player."If you place too much focus on one area or a few opponents then maybe you will get exposed somewhere else. There are only 10 survivors in the Stormers 23 that lost last year six in the starting lineup. The Chiefs have nine survivors in the starting lineup and a further six on the bench from last year s sublime performance. Cruden didn t mask the fact that the Stormers are benefitting from a NZ influence due to the addition of Paul Feeney to their coaching staff. The All Black flyhalf explained the mindset of NZ players in an effort to give insights into why their rugby has been so dominant at provincial and international level. We are very focused and driven our individual preparation because injuries happen and opportunities arise Cruden said. So when those opportunities come guys must be ready and willing to go out there and execute their role. It s all about confidence and for me good preparation gives you confidence to go out there and fulfil your role."We are big on that making sure the individuals are responsible and accountable and collectively we are as a group too. Things don t always pan out as you plan during a game but if you execute accurately then generally you will win. A lot of that comes down to individual preparation. STORMERS: 15 SP Marais 14 Cheslin Kolbe 13 EW Viljoen 12 Dan du Plessis 11 Dillyn Leyds 10 Robert du Preez 9 Dewaldt Duvenage 8 Sikhumbuzo Notshe 7 Siya Kolisi (capt) 6 Cobus Wiese 5 Pieter-Steph du Toit 4 Eben Etzebeth 3 Wilco Louw 2 Bongi Mbonambi 1 JC Janse van Rensburg Bench: 16 Ramone Samuels 17 Oli Kebble 18 Frans Malherbe 19 Jan de Klerk 20 Nizaam Carr 21 Justin Phillips 22 Kurt Coleman 23 Dan Kriel CHIEFS: 15 Damian McKenzie 14 Toni Pulu 13 Anton Lienert-Brown 12 Stephen Donald 11 James Lowe 10 Aaron Cruden (capt) 9 Tawera Kerr-Barlow 8 Michael Leitch 7 Lachlan Boshier 6 Liam Messam 5 Brodie Retallick 4 Dominic Bird 3 Atu Moli 2 Hika Elliot 1 Kane Hames Bench: 16 Brayden Mitchell 17 Siegfried Fisi ihoi 18 Sosefo Kautai 19 Taleni Seu 20 Mitchell Brown 21 Finlay Christie 22 Sam McNicol 23 Shaun Stevenson - TMG Digital/TMG Sport