Sundowns goalkeeper pulled off some fine saves providing the backbone to a clinical 2-0 defeat for the defending PSL champions against Lamontville Golden Arrows in KwaMashu Durban on Friday night.Caf s local-based player of 2016 had been out injured for six weeks soon after signing a new four-year contract with Downs in mid-February.In his return and return to form because there was a period just after Downs 2016 Champions League final victory against Zamalek in October where Onyango seemed to waver just a little the keeper has played in four of the Brazilians now five wins in a row.In all four of those Downs have not conceded. Onyango pulled off an especially good save from Kudakwashe Mahachi early in a tricky win against tight Arrows. We knew it was going to be very difficult for us. We wanted to go to the top of the log this night the keeper said afterwards. We ve been down a very long time and we ve been fighting to come up. And I had to keep the team in the game. And it paid off. At the end of the day we got the result. We knew Arrows are a very good team very compact and they play pound for pound. We knew Arrows would play on the break. They have been playing on the break all along. And for us it was all about getting the right moment. And the chances came our way and we executed. We knew that one or two chances would come their way and that I had to stay on top of my game. And I need to keep the clean sheets going because it s that time of the season where we need them because we have the ability to score the goals. Downs understandable loss of concentration followed their culmination of their conquest of Africa with the Super Cup victory against TP Mazembe in February.It saw them go five league matches without a win as games in hand that were the result of their continental efforts did not transfer into points on the board.But now Sundowns are PSL leaders (50 points from 24 matches) with a game in hand on second-placed Cape Town City (49 points) and with a head of steam on them the Brazilians will be hard to stop.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport