The Blitzboks have made one of the best ever starts to the Series with only one loss in their 18 matches so far this season thanks to their ability to suffocate opponents while keeping seven men on the field at all times. Over the past weekend the Blitzboks won the Wellington leg of the series for the first time since 2002 for their second victory after three rounds of the season.Their success has seen them open up a formidable 12-point gap at the top of the standings. The Blitzboks lead the standings on 63 points ahead of Fiji (51) and England (49). An almost watertight defence has been the most eye-catching aspect of the Blitzboks play this season although they were also the best defenders last year. The difference is that Neil Powell s team are punishing opponents more ruthlessly from turnover than they have in previous seasons. The numbers paint the picture.The Blitzboks have scored 534 points compared to Fiji s 477 and they have scored 84 tries - 11 more than Fiji. And after 18 matches the Blitzboks have yet to concede a yellow card this season which is a critical improvement after last year when they had eight yellows and a red card. Fiji have already conceded six yellows England five and New Zealand five.It s difficult to be consistent when losing players in the shorter version of the game. New Zealand who have won the series a record 12 times were the only team to win the opening three tournaments of the season on their way to the title in 2007/08.That year the Kiwis won six of the eight events. The Blitzboks won t be looking that far ahead and thinking about a record-breaking season.But the fact that they have already doubled their tournament victory tally from last season is a clear indication that something special is happening with this group of players. Last year the Blitzboks made four finals but only won in Cape Town for a 25% winning return when reaching the final.This year they have won in Dubai and Wellington while losing the Cape Town final 19-17 against England last December. Over the past weekend in Wellington SA s dominance was on a par with NZ eight years ago.The Blitzboks beat Fiji the current series and Olympic champions twice by a combined score of 57-17.In their other four matches they only conceded one try a total of four over the weekend. During the course of their six matches in Wellington the Blitzboks had the best tackle completion rate - 195 tackles (19 missed) for 80% (as 81% so far in series).Werner Kok (60) made the most tackles for the team. "We worked hard for this so there is lots of joy in our hearts that is for sure said Kok who pointed to the team's defensive structure for his impressive tackle count. We have a very good defensive structure in place and we focus on that. If everyone fulfils his role in that structure it works well like it did on the weekend. The series moves to Sydney this weekend where the Blitzboks are grouped with England the only team to beat them this year Kenya and Japan. - TMG Digital