The RFU s study focused on the 2015/16 season and revealed that concussion was responsible for 25% of match injuries in the English premiership.The average time a player was ruled out due to concussion was 13 days. Concussion now comprises 20% of all injuries to the ball carrier and 47% to the tackler according to that study. The RFU report is another volume to the mountain evidence that concussion is the biggest threat to player welfare in rugby. World Rugby the game s governing body recognised this years ago and implemented stringent concussion test protocols to lessen and ultimately eradicate concussed players risking their health by playing. In a further step to reduce concussion related injuries World Rugby introduced an amendment to the high tackle law late last year which has been used in European rugby since January 3. Referees have to be far stricter on high tackles even if they were accidental .In most cases a minimum sanction of a penalty will apply. If the referee deems the high tackle reckless regardless of intent then a minimum sanction of a yellow card will apply. The upshot has seen over 50 yellow cards and 12 red cards issued in Europe s top leagues in less than a month.The aim is to make players more conscious about how they tackle although there is still grey area around the definition of reckless versus accidental . As ever the referee has to make a subjective judgement call but at least the players now understand that any tackle above the shoulders even if an arm slips up is going to probably end in time in the sin bin. With player welfare paramount Super Rugby is about to get its first taste of the laws this season. Amending the high tackle law is the biggest change in Super Rugby in 2017 while there are four other minor experiment law changes that will be trialled in Super Rugby before the World Rugby council deliberates on their success or otherwise later this year. The experimental laws will affect the following areas of play: uncontested scrums time of play advantage penalty tries touch and the lineout. Below is a simplified brief summary of each of the approved Global Law Trials with a reasoning after the new trial law for easy interpretation. Law 3: Number of Players The TeamUncontested scrums as a result of a sending off temporary suspension or injury must be played with eight players per side.Reasoning: To discourage teams from deliberate infringements and going to uncontested scrums. Law 5.7 (e): Time (applied in Super Rugby in 2016 now on trial globally) If a penalty is kicked into touch after time has elapsed without touching another player the referee allows the throw-in to be taken and play continues until the next time the ball becomes dead.Reasoning: To discourage teams from infringing in the dying moments of the game. Law 8.1 (a): AdvantageWhen there are multiple penalty infringements by the same team the referee may allow the captain of the non-offending team to choose the most advantageous of the penalty marks.Reasoning: To discourage repeat offending when advantage is already being played and to reward teams against whom repeat offending has taken place. Law 9 (a.1): Method of ScoringIf a player would probably have scored a try but for foul play by an opponent a penalty try is awarded. No conversion is attempted and value of the try is seven points.Reasoning: To discourage teams from illegally preventing a probable try from being scored while also saving time on the clock by negating the need for a conversion. Law 19: Touch and Lineout A player who is attempting to bring the ball under control is deemed to be in possession of the ball.Reasoning: This brings into law something that is already applied in practice.It means that a player "juggling the ball does not have to be in contact with it at the exact moment of touching the touchline or the ground beyond it for the ball to be deemed to be in touch.This makes it easier for the match officials to adjudicate. Please see footnote. If a player jumps and knocks the ball back into the playing area (or if that player catches the ball and throws it back into the playing area) before landing in touch or touch-in-goal play continues regardless of whether the ball reaches the plane of touch.Reasoning: To simplify law and to increase ball-in-play time. If the ball-carrier reaches the plane of touch but returns the ball to the playing area without first landing in touch play continues.Reasoning: To simplify law and to increase ball-in-play time. In this case if the ball has passed the plane of touch when it is caught then the catcher is not deemed to have taken the ball into touch.If the ball has not passed the plane of touch when it is caught or picked up then the catcher is deemed to have taken the ball into touch regardless of whether the ball was in motion or stationary.Reasoning: To simplify law and to increase ball-in-play time. - TMG Digital