Moosa said even if Sundowns genuinely made a mistake that was their failure and it should not stand in the way of Dolly s potential move to French club Montpellier or Greek side Olympiacos.Moosa said any attempt to block a European move for Dolly in the current January transfer window would be poor treatment of a player who has continued to serve the Brazilians with complete dedication including through a grueling schedule becoming African champions and playing at the Fifa Club World Cup despite the ongoing dispute. With the Keagan Dolly situation I just feel that it doesn t seem right the whole thing to be honest Downs former midfield wizard Moosa said on Wednesday. I know Sundowns are a club especially since [president] Patrice Motsepe took over who look after their players well financially. But I think Keagan is ready to go overseas."He s played at all levels now except the World Cup."He s played in the Olympics he s made a mark with the Sundowns team that became champions of Africa. And even through this [dispute] process he hasn t showed that it s affected his play."He s continued in a professional way in terms of his performances and even his attitude. And I mean for me comparatively you look at the Olympics for example look at the Brazilian Gabriel Jesus who hit the post against South Africa who has gone to Manchester City for a huge amount."And I don t think Keagan was out of the class of any of those players at the Olympics. For me he should be going to a top club rather than even an Olympiacos or a Montpellier."Although those clubs can at least be a breakthrough into Europe for him. So I just feel that clubs don t like you to criticise them but Keagan has done well and he can go to the next level."To further his career that s what he really wants. And I just feel that this thing leaves a bit of a bitter taste in terms of how it s being handled."To say it s a mistake we know mistakes happen but it s kind of hard to believe. And even it it s true it s their mistake so why should it cost Keagan? Dolly has been taken to the Premier Soccer League s Dispute Resolution Chamber (DRC) to dispute a R12 million buyout clause in the Bafana Bafana winger s contract should he receive interest from European clubs.Downs have claimed changes to the clause made when the player renewed the contract 17 months ago were a mistake.Montpellier and Olympiacos have both put in R14 million offers for the player.The heads of argument on the case at the DRC were presented on December 9 with an outcome still pending.Sundowns general manager Sizwe Nzimande and legal and commercial manager Yogesh Singh could not be reached for comment. - TMG Digital