Its 127 matriculants all passed making the school one of the best performers in the province.Against the odds of poverty and not so fancy facility the no-fee school school has maintained a great track record and Gauteng MEC of Education Panyaza Lesufi is elated with its performance.Mhlaba Secondary achieved 69 bachelor passes and 44 diploma pass and has pupils who achieved as many as seven distinctions.What is the secret of this jewel on the West Rand? TMG Digital visited the school to find out.It is situated not far from Leratong Hospital in a strangely quiet informal settlement. Leading to the entrance of the school is a small dusty road where children play. The school has a sports field and library but no science and computer laboratory.Inside there is buzz of excitement. A marquee was erected and music to celebrate the great success.Principal Angie Mokiti was relaxed having a meal with Robert Zwane the chairperson of the school governing body.Delight is written all over the people's face. Mokiti said the school has never been in the newspapers despite its amazing track record.Raymond Mhlaba was opened in 2009 and had its first group of matriculants in 2012. These pioneers recorded a 100% pass.In 2013 it was another 100% it achieved 97.3% in 2014 and 98.9% in 2015. In 2016 the school was back to where it belongs a 100% pass rate. We started planning in the first year how we could achieve great results in our first matriculant group said Mokiti. We had enough time to plan properly and build the type of learners that we wanted. We were able to work on the vision that we had for the school. It was Mokiti s first time as a principal. She refuses to take credit for the school s great performance saying that this belongs to the team of teachers she has. It is the teamwork; it is the most important thing for us said Mokiti. You show people a vision and encourage them to work harder. Somehow people buy into that vision. But what is important is that you must be exemplary. I am also teaching life science. She has been able to get a 100% pass rate in her subject four years out of fiveThe only drop happened in 2014 when the grade 12s achieved a 98.9% pass in life sciences.Mokiti s other secret to success is that she does not believe in mediocrity among poor and black communities. Our learners must understand that they can get 100%. We should have this idea of black excellence. It is not good that we get 50% every time. The only way learners from this neighbourhood can get out of poverty is through education. That is my passion. I feel that God has placed me here for a purpose.Mokiti admits she is tough on the learners in her determination to get top results. We are hard on them. When you are absent we call the parent. We actually go and collect you from home. Our learners know what is expected of them. We want good results for the learners. We have told parents that there is only one chance to do grade 12 and learners have to get it right the first time. When you don t have grade 12 life becomes very difficult on South Africa. After the normal school day which ends at 2.30pm pupils remain to study until 4pm. There are also Saturday classes that run from 8am to 2.30pm.Twins Vuyiswa and Vuyelwa Ngcoza who are among the top matriculants in the school said Mokiti is a mother - but also a disciplinarian - to everyone. She wants everyone to pass. So she puts that pressure on everyone that we should work at our best. She makes us feel that we all have to pass because there is no room for failure said Vuyiswa.Vuyelwa obtained four distinctions and Vuyiswa got two.