Mighty Mbghor principal of Johannesburg City College got into a heated argument with DHET officials when they asked whether his college is accredited with the department.He had two documents that according to the officials do not prove anything. The college offers work-based learning programmes which are not accredited by the department.Mbghor was defensive of his college without answering whether or not it is accredited."We have always had differences with the department because this is the way you want to do it (referring to the department of Higher education bringing the media). I don't have a problem with you doing your job but I have a problem with you doing your job on my doorstep " he said.His college offers qualifications in music accounting botany applied mathematics zoology geology and environmental sciences.Dr Shaheeda Essack director registration of private institutions explained the status of the college saying it was not registered for the qualifications it promises the students. The Johannesburg City College is like the many colleges we have closed down it's case is with the SAPS. There are areas we haven't reached but we are getting there. We are engaging with schools and districts to build awareness. As part of reaching a wider population we have collaborated with the National Taxi Association since operators go to taxi ranks to recruit. The taxi ranks will help spread awareness and give information on the career counselling we offer Essack said.Braamfontein and the Johannesburg city centre see thousands of students flocking into the city looking to further their studies. Some of the colleges that have lured students to enrol are not accredited to offer the programmes advertised.DHET wants to use the registrations phase of the year to bring awareness to the thousands of matriculants looking for spaces at higher education institutions. If students find out their college is not registered firstly they have to open a case with the police. And depending on the nature of their claim they can either go to the Small Claims Court or if they have access to lawyers they can open a case of fraud that can be taken up with the department of higher education said Ntokozo Bhengu researcher at the Council on Higher Education.Bhengu added that when complaints have been lodged and the college confirmed to be unregistered the institution is then shut down with the help from the SAPS.*Students can call 0800 87 2222 to verify the credibility of the college.