Wesley James Smith who was not present when Kuben Pather 33 from Chatsworth was attacked by drag racers at a petrol station on Durban s Umgeni Road last week made a statement to the police on Monday.He has condemned the attack on Pather describing it as 100% wrong and mob justice against someone who could not defend himself. I want justice to be done for this guy no matter how wrong he was. Two wrongs don t make a right. It does not give them a right to play God by kicking a person he said.Shortly after Smith had posted the video on Facebook it went viral but since then he has taken a lot of flak with some people accusing him of playing a hero.drag I don t want to be a hero. I just want justice for what happened. I think the fact that racing has come to a massive light the public now automatically thinks that everyone that races is generalised in the same category. I m getting cursed among everyone that I know and people think that I want to be a hero. I don t think that s fair. There is a lot of us that go to the track do things properly said Smith.He said he would like to know the person who took the video because I would like to ask him why he did not intervene and why he thinks it was better to take the video because had I been there on the night I know I am not a professional boxer but I would have tried to intervene and that would have made a difference. Smith who describes himself as a petrolhead with a money hungry racecar believes he made a difference by posting the footage on Facebook. If one guy made a difference there like I did on Facebook it would have been a different outcome said Smith.He is concerned that people are painting a bad light on racing and now the public believes that everyone who takes part in it is a vigilante who takes the law into their own hands. Drag racing is a controlled environment. The mere fact that we are able to go out an enjoy ourselves is a big thing. Street racing starts at every robot you line wherever you are and that s what it is. To me I think it s pathetic but that s my opinion he said.Pather a small plant mechanic with the eThekwini Municipality has laid a case of common assault against his attackers at the Sydenham Police Station. He told the police that he was driving along Umgeni Road when he noticed a vehicle speeding behind him. He then stopped and jumped out of his vehicle and was approached by a group of people who assaulted him.Police said the matter was being investigated but no arrest has been made in connection with the incident.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE