Cricket South Africa (CSA) at the weekend announced that they have resolved to begin a recruitment process as they look to appoint a head coach through to the 2019 World Cup which means Domingo must reapply if he wants to continue in charge of the Proteas. It hasn t affected the coach too much. The coaching team is extremely motivated which is brilliant and they have been professional in everything they are doing Amla said on Tuesday in Durban as the Proteas wrapped up their preparations for the second ODI against Sri Lanka on Wednesday at Kingsmead. Don t forget that it is about six to seven months away (to the end of Domingo s contract) which is a long time. In-between then we have many different challenges to keep our focus on. Amla added that a thriving team culture has allowed them to remain focused on the job at hand against Sri Lanka in the remaining four matches of the ODI series and the bigger picture of planning for the ICC Champions Trophy which takes place in England and Wales in June. The beauty of the team is that we are focused and we have a good culture and the news that the coach must reapply for his job has not been a distraction at all. "It s about what is next for us because we understand that we are playing for a bigger cause and for our country. Looking ahead of Wednesday s clash against Sri Lanka Amla said their preparations had gone very well and their mission was to increase their lead to 2-0 following a comprehensive eight-wicket victory on Sunday in Port Elizabeth. Preparations have been very good. Coaches and captains have tried to put structures in place for the team to succeed and it has been working very well. At the moment we are playing very good cricket the team seems very well settled he said.Amla also said he was impressed by the way the batsmen had been playing over the last few months. At the moment each guy s batting is looking good and the lineup looks very solid. Quinton de Kock is one of the best Faf du Plessis is in very good form AB de Villiers is a legend JP Duminy has been batting very well and everybody has been contributing. The batting line-up has been doing very well but we don t want to look too far ahead because we know that the game changes very quickly he said. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport