Hunt said Wits resumption of training later than some of their title rivals notably fourth-placed Kaizer Chiefs a week before on Monday is enough time for Wits to get back in their groove after a tough finish to 2016. I think it gives you enough time it s about three-and-a-half weeks nearly four weeks to prepare he said. I always say in South Africa we train more than we play so you don t need that much. I think we train too much. I think the majority of the teams started yesterday (Monday)."If you re starting earlier maybe you re panicking a bit. Hunt admitted there was concern at how Wits after getting 2016-17 off to a flier with his best squad in his fourth season at the club with 10 wins from 12 games including the 3-0 MTN8 final win against Mamelodi Sundowns finished 2016 struggling to win.Wits could only win one game from their last six before the six-week break for Christmas and the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations. We should have been six points clear. But it is what it is and we re also still right up there Hunt said. There was concern. Because we were on such a good roll and then we lost the whole team again. Through injuries and long-term stuff. We lost our defence and that showed in the last couple of games. It is a second pre-season now. But it doesn t help because you re loading here and you need to do more game-structured stuff which obviously we will do with a few friendlies just to get up and running again. We ve got one game in hand on SuperSport. Games in hand really mean nothing. We should have been way clear having been in such a good position after 10 games. But those things happen in football and hopefully our bad spell is over. Wits remain in a strong position in second place in the PSL level on 25 points with SuperSport United who have a better goal difference. The Clever Boys have a game in hand on SuperSport and two on all the other title contenders in the top six.They resume their challenge against Ajax Cape Town at Bidvest Stadium on February 7. - TMG Digital