But now he faces another hurdle. Nzuza 17 the son of a single parent was overjoyed to get a letter provisionally accepting him to study medicine at the University of KwaZulu-Natal Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine. But he has no idea where the money will come from to pursue his dream."All I can tell you is that I'm going there. God will make a plan when I'm there " he said.This is the same determination that has seen the teenager achieving a feat that none in his family have achieved.He got seven straight As - in maths physical science life sciences accounting life orientation isiZulu and English first additional language."I hardly saw my mother as she would leave early for work in Rossburgh and come home very very late. So the books became a friend " said Nzuza.Nzuza who made a daily 6km trek to school and back also assisted his teachers by tutoring his fellow classmates in mathematics and physical science on a rotational basis."When I came home I would study further until late while I also helped with house chores and also helped my young brother with his homework."Surprisingly Nzuza would rest on weekends and visit his father who lives in another section of the sprawling township."It would be a breather from all the school work. There you cannot the study as there's always noise and I would return either on Sunday or Monday " he said.He is worried about fees protests disrupting his university studies and said he hoped it would be quiet for the next seven years."It's a good cause and it affects poor students like me who would benefit when fees eventually fall but I'm hoping for a smooth academic time at varsity " he said with a wry chuckle. His principal Muntu Ntombela is clearly proud of the young man and the rest of the 2016 class which continued the school's decades-long legacy of excellent results that began under its late principal Felix Mshololo.Ntombela said Nzuza and the rest of the matric class made us proud. This is despite a few glitches with the geography results which we are dealing with with the department. But we have been assured we again attained a 100 percent pass rate " she said.For Nzuza getting funding to continue his studies will be a windfall. "I will be the first doctor in my home and probably also the first in this H section " he said with a confident grin. - TMG Digital/The Times