Adrian Thomas 36 who once took to the skies on no-frills airline Kulula is hopeful the video will be his springboard into the entertainment world.Thomas now a car salesman in Sandton posted footage of his onboard safety demonstration during a flight from Johannesburg to Durban in 2013.The video received about 35 000 views.But on Sunday for reasons even Thomas can t explain the four-minute footage of him cracking up passengers with his different accents during a safety demonstration resurfaced and has received nearly 400 000 views."I just took my own initiative. Kulula is a no-frills airline it s all about fun. I wrote my own script made my own announcement and just did them in different accents."Thomas said he is "just as surprised as everyone else" by the video going viral four years after it was posted."All of a sudden it went viral. Maybe it was just supposed to happen for me this year."That s the beauty of social media I suppose. I did a similar video around the same time. A friend of mine who lives in France posted it online. That video which has French subtitles received over 600 000 hits " said Thomas."I ve tried to do many things I even tried to get into TV but there s been no limelight until now."In the video during his introduction to passengers Thomas takes on an Indian persona: "My name is Rajesh my surname is Gupta Just joking folks it's Adriano."He then switches to an English accent for the safety instructions: "For our first time travellers and blondes aboard first you click it adjust it and release it."Now if you re onboard with your lover gentlemen and you also spotted your skelmpie [mistress] a few rows away from you you will be pleased to know there s eight emergency exits on this aircraft."Thomas said he has received mostly positive feedback from social media users."I ve ignored the negative ones."One social media commentator wrote: "Just saw this for the first time. Cracker. Couldn t stop laughing. Perhaps your new career path lies in the entertainment industry."Kulula spokesman Bridgette Ramuluvhana said the airline had "always been about making air travel a fun and enjoyable experience for our passengers so we are glad to see that social media users are sharing Adrian s love for his job"."Safety is always our priority and his light-hearted take on the safety demonstration is a great way to remind people of that." - TMG Digital/The Times