Wilderness Search and Rescue which co-ordinates rescue efforts on the mountain and elsewhere in the Western Cape recorded 175 incidents for the year. There were 169 incidents in 2015.Spokesman Johan Marais told TMG Digital on Friday that the three most common incidents that search and rescue teams responded to were for people who are lost injured or dehydrated. And most of the victims are tourists who are unfamiliar with the terrain.New Year s day saw rescuers being dispatched to help a dehydrated 46-year-old hiker from KwaZulu-Natal who was stranded on the Platteklip Gorge footpath. She was airlifted to safety by the Air Mercy Service rescue helicopter carrying a hoist operator technical rescuer and an advanced life support paramedic. The helicopter landed in a nearby parking lot and the woman was taken by ambulance to hospital. The majority of people who report incidents are people from overseas; about 70% of our calls is to rescue a tourist. People underestimate Table Mountain; it is a fully fledged mountain. The common mistake they make is they misjudge the size of the mountain and they go unprepared. They don t take water with and they wear flip flops he said.Cape Town is notorious for having four seasons in one day. Marais said people going up the mountain should bring along appropriate clothing in case the weather changes. He said that of all the incidents rescuers were dispatched to recovering a body after a person jumped to their death on purpose were the worst.But he added most rescues were very rewarding.Four people died on Table Mountain in 2016 according to statistics provided by the SA Mountain Accidents Database. About 50 people were injured.But when seen in context with the sheer number of people who visit the mountain the number of injured and stranded is relatively small. Wahida Parker managing director of the Table Mountain Aerial Cableway Company said that about one million people visit Table Mountain every year.Wilderness Search and Rescue makes use of volunteers and works closely with organisations such as K9 Search and Rescue Cape Nature SANParks Mountain Club of South Africa Search and Rescue Hikers Network Four Wheel Drive Club of South Africa and the SA Red Cross Air Mercy Service.Marais has advice for people who are planning to climb Table Mountain. - Come prepared and tell people what route you are taking; - Never go up the mountain by yourself; - Wear the appropriate hiking gear bring along warm clothes water and a fully charged cellphone; - If you are lost or hurt and need assistance send clear images of where you are. The team knows the mountain so by looking at the images you send they will be able to determine where you are. If you are not able to do so phone 021 937 0300 for help.