Dirco spokesperson Clayson Monyela said on Monday that the Tshwane mayor s sojourn which saw him receive the freedom of the city was in breach of South Africa's foreign policy: the One China Policy . Taiwan is not recognised as a sovereign state by South Africa and the United Nations he said. South Africa maintains a liaison office in Taipei as do the Taiwanese in Pretoria Monyela said adding that these do not enjoy the status of an embassy and exist to facilitate people-to-people contact . It has no political mandate and therefore interaction between political office bearers is not allowed. Representatives of any sphere of government must ensure that their engagements with international entities are aligned to existing mechanism and programmed and that such relations are coordinated in a manner that advances South Africa's foreign policy and national interests. Monyela did not say if any action would be taken against Msimanga. The African National Congress on Monday called on Dirco to confiscate all official and diplomatic passports from officials who are found to be wilfully undermining our foreign policy .Centre for Constitutional Rights director Phephelaphi Dube questioned whether this was the correct way forward telling Radio 702 on Tuesday that the government is not in position to take simply away one s passport .She said the issue however raises quite interesting questions on intergovernmental relations and cooperative governance because the Constitution makes it clear that different tiers of government can make their own policies and make their own rules.. in pursuing their own development strategy .The bottom line Dube said is that the Constitution does allow a certain measure of independence to different tiers of government.The Democratic Alliance (DA) defended Msimanga s trip saying: The reality is that their baseless attacks stem from their unwillingness to accept that they have lost control of many municipalities across South Africa. The party reminded the ruling party that neither the ANC nor the national government it runs can dictate who DA Mayors meet with in order to obtain job-creating investment and that such international trips are allowed .The DA said the ANC s comments amounted to a hypocritical attack and the party s Dean MacPherson tweeted details of a 2014 trip to Taiwan undertaken by Trade and Industries Minister Rob Davies.Dean Macpherson @DeanMacpherson posted: Here's a trip to Taiwan by @the_dti paid for by taxpayers to increase orders and job opportunities according to (ANC) Minister Rob Davies. Here's a trip to Taiwan by @the_dti paid for by taxpayers to increase orders and job opportunities according to (ANC) Minister Rob Davies. pic.twitter.com/cKiieTbgDi Dean Macpherson (@DeanMacpherson) January 2, 2017 Here's a trip to Taiwan by @the_dti paid for by taxpayers to increase orders and job opportunities according to (ANC) Minister Rob Davies. pic.twitter.com/cKiieTbgDi TMG Digital 