According to Drum, the troubled rapper wrote an apology song entitled Ke Kopa Tshwarelo (Please forgive me) while in prison and offered their journalists a listen to it.A song by the same name found its way online hours after Jub Jub was released on parole on Thursday morning and features jazz singer Tsepo Tshola. TshisaLIVE has reached out to both Jub Jub's legal team and Tsepo Tshola to confirm the validity of the song.Jub Jub's attorney, Rudi Krause, could not confirm or deny news of the song, while Tsepo did not respond to requests for comment.According to Sowetan, the rapper, who was jailed for crashing his Mini Cooper into a group of school children in 2010, seemed to address the accident and said that he was misled by the "good life" and pressure from friends."My life was too fast...blindfolded by the good life and pressure of my boys...I was careless, sniffing coke, riding reckless. I thought that I was impressing, just living life to the fullest," the rapper sang.He also speaks of breaking down in prison from regret and wanting to make the most of his second chance."I'm tired of the mistakes that I have made. My tears were rolling down my cheeks when in prison, I got myself in trouble and you pulled me from the mud... I never thought this day would come, with what I have become, only prayers rubbing my palm. Now I can overcome any obstacle in front of me," he raps in another verse.The song ends with a passionate plea to the nation to forgive him."I beg for forgiveness mama. I beg for forgiveness baba. I beg for forgiveness my brother. I beg for forgiveness my sister. I beg for forgiveness my country," Tsepo sang.Speaking to TshisaLIVE , SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said that he was not aware of the song being submitted for consideration at any of the broadcaster's radio stations but believed that if it was "good enough" it would be considered."If it is suitable for the station it will be evaluated and considered for inclusion on a station's playlist," Kaizer said.Jub Jub and Themba Tshabalala were convicted of culpable homicide for crashing their cars into a group of school children in 2010. The accident left four dead and two others brain damaged.The pair were placed on parole on Thursday after the Department of Correctional Services said that they had served the required four years of their eight-year sentences.