It was initially stated that two people were killed but police have subsequently confirmed that only one person died.How events unfolded:The 26-year-old went to the Inanda area north of Durban on Thursday afternoon "looking for his girlfriend" said SAPS spokesman Brigadier Jay Naicker. The man was armed with an R4 rifle and is still on the run."As he entered the premises he allegedly shot at two of her sisters with an automatic rifle. One of the sisters passed away on the scene while the other was taken to hospital for medical attention " he said.But his spree didn't end there. When he realised his girlfriend wasn't home he went on the hunt to find her."He proceeded to B Section in Ntuzuma where he found the girlfriend s mother and her brothers. He allegedly kidnapped one of her brothers to assist in searching for her " said Naicker.In the meantime Ntuzuma police and other special units began looking for the 8 South African Infantry (8SAI) soldier. "While travelling on Ingcebo Road police came across the suspect s vehicle. The suspect immediately opened fire on police and injured a member of the SAPS on his foot while a family member of the girlfriend was injured on her arm " said Naicker.But still the drama wasn't over."Police returned fire and the suspect realising that he was out numbered fled on foot in between the houses in the area " he said.The soldier's vehicle was left abandoned.The Times understands the soldier was wounded in the gun battle but this could not be confirmed.Because the man is heavily armed police have cautioned against approaching him."We would not advise any member of the public attempt to apprehend him as he is dangerous " he said. Acting provincial commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa said police would pull out all the stops to find the man. We are saddened by the events of today. Too many innocent lives are lost as a result of domestic conflict. We will do anything within our control to make sure that the suspect is apprehended and face the full might of the criminal justice system he said. TMG Digital/TimesLIVE