Wednesday s list sets out the biggest risks the planet faces in 2017 and a struggling South Africa features at number 10.Ian Bremmer of political risk consultancy Eurasia Group writes: The deeply unpopular President Jacob Zuma beset by corruption allegations is afraid to pass power to someone he doesn t trust. The resulting infighting over succession stalls any momentum toward crucial economic reform in the country and limits South Africa s ability to offer leadership needed to stabilise conflicts inside neighbouring countries. Top of Time s list is the unpredictability thrust on the world by this month s inauguration of Donald Trump as US president.Says Bremmer: The world s sole superpower was once the international trump card imposing order to force compromise and head off conflict. Now it s a wildcard because instead of creating policies designed to bolster global stability President Trump will use US power overwhelmingly to advance US interests with little concern for the broader impact. The second greatest risk is China s possible overreaction to Trump provocations. The sheer number of places where US-China tensions might play out North Korea Taiwan Hong Kong the East and South China Seas make 2017 a dangerous year for China and all who depend on it for growth and stability. Next is the risk of a power vacuum in Europe. Strong leadership from Angela Merkel has proven indispensable for Europe s ability to manage crisis in recent years says Bremmer. Europe will face more challenges in 2017 from France s elections Greece s finances Brexit negotiations and delicate relations with both Russia and Turkey. Unfortunately though Merkel is likely to win re-election as Germany s chancellor in 2017 she ll emerge as a weakened figure. This will leave Europe with no strong leadership at all at a time when strong leaders are badly needed. The rest of the risk list is made up of a pause in economic progress technology disrupting the Middle East politics interfering with central banks the White House vs Silicon Valley Turkey s ongoing crackdown and North Korea rattling its sabre. TMG Digital/The Times