Wits raised eyebrows with their weak exits fielding under-strength teams from the Caf Confederation Cup in the past two years.Two seasons ago they lost on penalties against Swazi side Royal Leopards blowing a 3-0 first leg lead in the opening round.Last season Wits went a round further but capitulated 3-0 at home to Tanzanian club Azam eventually losing 7-3 on aggregate.This has stood in stark contrast to Mamelodi Sundowns becoming the first South African club to win the more prestigious Caf Champions League since 1995 last year.Hunt said in the past two seasons Wits were too thin in their squad and had to prioritise domestic ambitions. We never had the players. We don t buy players we work in a free/loan market Wits coach said. Sundowns front four who played against us in the [MTN8] final was worth over R50 million. My front four who played in that cup final was worth nothing we got them all for free. I mean last year Sundowns bought our player [Sibusiso Vilakazi] for a record fee."I can t buy Khama Billiat and Keagan Dolly. Sundowns can afford to do that. And they should be doing that. The three big clubs in SA should be able to play across all fronts."We ve got to concentrate on one game at a time and see where best to put our emphasis. And last year for us the best place was to try and challenge more in the league. In defence of Hunt his position is not quite the same as that of Sundowns counterpart Pitso Mosimane.Apart from the superior resources at Downs Mosimane could afford to throw everything into the Champions League last season backed by the ambition of the club and having already won a league title there.In contrast Hunt has yet to win a league at Wits and the club have been notoriously skittish in their approach to continental competition.Still Hunt maintains with a month to go to Wits 2017 Champions League opener against SS Saint-Louisienne of Reunion in mid-February that with a stronger deeper squad this season Wits can afford to be competitive domestically and continentally. We re going to have to see what the best situation is for us at that time. But there s no doubt our squad is much stronger this year to compete across more fronts he said. And there are less rounds. [In the Confed] we had to play eight games to get into a group now it s four [in the Champions League]. I can manage it better. The one area where I can t is in our defence because we don t really have enough cover there. But in midfield wide the strikers we ve got enough to play on a couple of fronts. So yes this year definitely. I wouldn t say Go for it . But we ll put out a stronger team. But now to say that we must put all our eggs in one basket like Sundowns did well I don t think we can do that. Because we don t have the same squad. Wits meet St Louisienne away on February 10 to 12 then at home on February 17 to 19. - TMG Digital