he spokesperson told Radio 702 on Monday morning that her comments were unfortunate and regrettable. I'm not saying the words used in that post were acceptable. I take full responsibility for that. It was regrettable. Oliphant s outburst came in the wake of a recent Citizen report that said the minister reportedly used a microphone stand when standing and sitting down and quoted observers saying she seemed unsteady on her feet .Oliphant posted on Facebook that people can say whatever you want to say on her politics when you do not agree with her but added don t s*** about her .She also taunted the media saying: Anyone of you who wish to use this post for your articles go the f*** ahead! Yes the f*** ahead!"She referred to the mothers of those claiming that the minister had addressed South Africans drunk as village whores for which she received the most backlash. Why do you defend a woman and insult other women? a caller to the radio station asked.In response Oliphant said: To all the woman I do apologise especially to those who know me as a person who speaks for gender equality. She also stressed that Dlamini does not take alcohol at all and actually devoted her time to fighting social ills caused by its abuse.Oliphant admitted that her conduct was not becoming of someone in her position but would not say whether she would resign as a result. I'm not going to answer that on air. That is for me to take 134 Pretorius Street Pretoria she told hold Eusebius McKaiser.Following the interview Lumka Oliphant trended on Twitter and the responses to her apology varied: Caller to @Eusebius: There's a difference between regrettable and I regret. She came to @702 to save face &amp; do damage control #LumkaOliphantDid #LumkaOliphant apologise because she's scared her job is on the line or because she genuinely feels remorse?Hao Mzansi, what the hell do you want from #LumkaOliphant, she said she s sorry mos, hai soka man @Eusebius next topic please...#lumkaoliphant she was unprofessional that is a fact.She apologized&amp;that is a fact as well.Its normal to differ in acceptance of an apologyOliphant said she would continue to use her social media accounts to voice her personal views.Home Affairs spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete said he did not agree with Oliphant s comments but understood her frustration. I ve spoken to Lumka and she definitely feels bad about what she's done. She must be strong he said as a caller on the radio show. TMG Digital