Nine days after getting his freedom from behind bars at Leeuwkop Prison, Jub Jub's life is now concealed from public view as he hides out at his mother's suburban facebrick house, while waiting on sporadic police checks on his whereabouts. It's a far cry from the fast-paced and glamorous life the rapper used to live prior to the 2010 incident, when he smashed his car into school children in Soweto, killing four and leaving two others brain damaged.His parole conditions have been cloaked in secrecy with The Department of Correctional Services insisting this information is private."We don't reveal parole conditions as there is a risk factor and we also have to ensure proper reintegration into society," said Correctional Service's Singabakho Nxumalo.TshisaLIVE visited the Maarohanye family home in Naturena, Johannesburg, which Jub Jub is using as his primary home since being released from prison last week after serving four years of an eight year culpable homicide sentence.Two black cars were parked outside and the road was quiet with only a few cars passing every now and then.Two neighbours, who stay next door to the musician, told TshisaLIVE they have seen a police car parked outside the home every day since Jub Jub's release last week. Jub Jub released on parole - Kelly Khumalo posts snaps of her family vaycay "A police car comes in every day. It is not the same time and we understand they don't inform Mama Jackie when they are coming."The neighbours said Jub Jub has not been spotted leaving the house, but they did see him once in the garden. LISTEN: Jub Jub's 'forgiveness' song released Community members in the tight-knit area said that they were aware that Jub Jub had been released, but "mind their own business" and are only concerned should their families be affected by his presence in the neighbourhood.Popularly known as Mama Jackie, Jub Jub's mother, accompanied by a Rottweiler, briefly came out to greet us, only for her to quickly turn around and say "bye bye."A man dressed in blue overalls then approached the gate and said that Mama Jackie is "not ready to give interviews". Twitter has a field day with #ThingsThatJubJubDoesn'tKnow trend "She has been through a lot. She needs time. She is not going to be doing interviews. This has all been very hard on her. It's still early for anything," he said through the maroon gate at the entrance of the house.He would only identify himself as someone helping around the house. Jub Jub and his friend, Themba Tshabalala were convicted of culpable homicide for crashing their cars into a group of school children in 2010. 