But the real drama unfolded late in the day as tournament favourite Rory McIlroy dropped shots on the last two holes before being whisked away for treatment to his troublesome back.The extent of McIlroy's injury is not known but it is unlikely to prevent him from completing his obligations over the weekend.Unheralded Graeme Storm charged to the front with a nine-under second round 63 to be 12-under for the tournament.Storm holds a two-shot lead over South Africa's Trevor Fisher Jnr and Jbe Kurger as well as American Peter Uihlein.A further shot back is the hugely popular McIlroy who hit a purple patch just before and for a considerable period after the turn.The day belonged to Storm after Jaco van Zyl caused the early drama by winning a BMW i8 for his hole-in-one on the 17th.Storm however is perhaps lucky to be here.He looked set to lose his European Tour playing privileges last year but got gifted a lifeline when American Ryder Cup star Patrick Reed failed to play in the required number of tournaments in the Race to Dubai. I got a lot of publicity out of it to be fair said Storm. More publicity out of losing my card and then getting my card than when I won the French Open 10 years ago."Which is ironic. It brought new sponsors who believe in me. Now I'm looking forward to the weekend. It is going to be tough. Just keep playing the way I am and see where it takes me. Kruger delivered another consistent round and repeated the 67 he carded on the first day.Fisher Jnr who was the co-leader after the opening round delivered a fighting 68. He had trouble off the tee and had to scramble most of the day.Another mover on the day was Centurion based Louis de Jager who put the disappointment of a opening 77 firmly behind him with a soul soothing 64. I hit it beautifully off the tee and unlike the first round I was able to make some putts. I hit 13 fewer putts in the second round he said.McIlroy looked set to storm into the lead before his round lost momentum in the closing holes.He eagled the eighth to bring his round back on an even keel after he double bogeyed the fourth.Birdies either side of the turn helped kick-start the Ulsterman to a remarkable sequence which saw him birdieing holes 12 to 15 which brought him to within a shot of the lead.The closing holes however bit him in the back.Play was suspended for the day due to a weather warning with 45 players still to complete the second round.Play will resume at 7.15 on Saturday morning. - TMG Digital