Torrential rains pounded mainly northern parts of KZN resulting in the deaths of two children in Nquthu when the wall of their home collapsed.Umgeni Water said on Monday that the rains in the province had not made any significant impact and the drought was likely to persist as most of the water did not make its way to the key catchment areas.KwaZulu-Natal Agricultural Union (Kwanalu) CEO Sandy la Marque said while the rain was welcome in many areas dam and water tables remained dangerously low. The agricultural sector will take a long time to recover from the lingering drought. We can only hope that more rain will fall and bring further relief she said.Umgeni Water spokesman Shami Harichunder said on Monday that utility s largest system which supplies water to an estimated four million consumers in uMgungundlovu District Pietermaritzburg and much of eThekwini remains under stress as the drought continues its firm grip on the province.Harichunder said the recent rains had not made any impact to the dam levels. It rained at the wrong places and outside our water catchments. For something to happen the water has to flow to our catchment not straight to the sea. He said the system in question Mgeni comprises in its upper part Mearns Weir and Spring Grove and Midmar dams while the lower part of the Mgeni system comprises Albert Falls Nagle and Inanda dams. The levels of four of these dams are lower than they had been a year ago while the levels of the remaining two are marginally higher than they were a year ago to the day he said.Midmar is currently standing at 57% up from the 48% it was a year ago. Another improvement has been seen at Mearns Weir which is at 108% up from 71% a year ago.He said Mearns Weir is currently overflowing as a result of good rains in its catchment which are Mooi River and the Drakensberg. However one of the newest dams in KwaZulu-Natal the Spring Grove in Mooi River is down to 51% from 74% year-on-year.Nagle Dam near Cato Ridge is down to 60% from 86% a year ago while water levels at Albert Falls near New Hanover are down to 27% from 38% a year ago.Another troubled dam is Durban s Inanda which has plummeted to 62% from 81% a year ago.Harichunder said Spring Grove and Mearns are small dams that empty out as quickly as they fill up. Umgeni Water has issued a reminder to all consumers that water restrictions still remain in place in all of uMgungundlovu Pietermaritzburg and in about 80% of Durban. An appeal has also been made to consumers to use water sparingly. Areas of Durban not affected by water restrictions are in the far north of the city. These areas are supplied by Hazelmere Water Treatment Works he said.Forecasts by the South African Weather Service and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research suggest that if above-average rainfall is received this is only likely to occur in the first quarter of 2017.Harichunder said this means that the amount of water available in Mgeni system will have to last until the next rains. Thus far in the first days of 2017 little rainfall in the catchment areas has been received. If the predictions of above-average rainfall do not materialise the multi-stakeholder Joint Operations Committee for Mgeni system may have to consider requesting the Department of Water and Sanitation to increase mandatory restrictions from its current 15% to say 20% or 25% he said.This measure will only become necessary if good rains are not received.Adding to the current complex situation is prevailing high temperatures that cause evaporation of dam surface water. It is therefore imperative that disciplined use of water and strict adherence to the current restrictions continue. By practising water conservation consumers will assist in ensuring that some of it will be available for future consumption and until the next rains are received he said. - TMG Digital/The Times