Correctional Services confirmed on Thursday morning that Jub Jub and Themba Tshabalala had been released on parole after serving four years of their eight-year sentences.The decision sparked a fierce debate on social media, as people voiced their opinion on the pair's release. Outraged people flocked to Twitter to voice their anger at the decision, claiming that it was not a fair punishment for the pair's crime.Jub Jub will be alive to go and see his family, but his victims will never get the chance to see their family. It's sad Tiba (@TOADF) January 5, 2017Jub jub free while 4 kids are dead one in mentally handicapped. right. dominic ngeleka (@DominicNgeleka) January 5, 2017Victims and their families never get justice in SA. #jubjub is already out after killing people's children . (@_lethabo17) January 5, 2017Jub Jub will be alive to go and see his family, but his victims will never get the chance to see their family. It's sadJub jub free while 4 kids are dead one in mentally handicapped. right.Victims and their families never get justice in SA. #jubjub is already out after killing people's children .I know Jub Jub spent 4 years in prison but he wont return those kids they killed it was very wreckless. Ba bolaile bana 4 kids dead. (@Ke_Tholo) January 5, 2017I know Jub Jub spent 4 years in prison but he wont return those kids they killed it was very wreckless. Ba bolaile bana 4 kids dead.While others welcomed Jub Jub's release and shared their hopes that the star had learnt his lesson.I'm glad Jub Jub is out on parole Daddy, Fat Sax (@StuntMurphy_) January 5, 2017Everyone deserves a second chance even Jub Jub Thendo Rasemolo (@Trasemolo) January 5, 2017I'm quite happy for Jub-Jub...Let's hope this experience has made him a better person. M U S A M K H I Z E (@Musa_Cebza) January 5, 2017I'm glad Jub Jub is out on paroleEveryone deserves a second chance even Jub JubI'm quite happy for Jub-Jub...Let's hope this experience has made him a better person.I want to see Jub jub use this "second chance",his connections and talent to better the lives of poor township kids...#CommunityService Kizo da Kidd (@kizobantu) January 5, 2017I want to see Jub jub use this "second chance",his connections and talent to better the lives of poor township kids...#CommunityServicePopular actress Rami Chene also responded to the news by seemingly urging Jub Jub to grab his second chance at life and not look back.JubJub out on parole. Second chances. Grab the opportunities, don't look back! Rami Chuene 1st Lady (@ramichuene) January 5, 2017 JubJub out on parole. Second chances. Grab the opportunities, don't look back!This, while users drew comparisons between Jub Jub and Olympian Oscar Pistorious.@WANDI420 jub jub was reckless behavior (mistake) Oscar did it willingly - he knew what he was doing from the time he pulled the trigger Buthi ma' sweedy (@Vuyo_Daza) January 5, 2017Oscar Pistorius was released within months so please spare us the drama, Jub Jub served his time # Jub Jub Mphonono (@mphomphozane) January 5, 2017Tweeps happy that Jub Jub is released early like Oscar was. Forgetting dat dis isn't abt racism but justice .Y'all lose da plot so easy QueenOfDrama (@its_true47) January 5, 2017@WANDI420 jub jub was reckless behavior (mistake) Oscar did it willingly - he knew what he was doing from the time he pulled the triggerOscar Pistorius was released within months so please spare us the drama, Jub Jub served his time # Jub JubTweeps happy that Jub Jub is released early like Oscar was. Forgetting dat dis isn't abt racism but justice .Y'all lose da plot so easy But while the internet was choosing sides in the debate, a few users couldn't help but poke fun at the situation.Jub Jub went to jail when I was using iPhone 3, now there's iPhone 7...He doesn't even know instagram now Jumanji (@JujuJinaj) January 5, 2017Jub Jub going through the net to see who is the hottest rapper in SA like 'who the hell is Cassper nyovest?' pic.twitter.com/gdHeN9UC9n Earthboy Marvin (@TheGreatTNMarv) January 5, 2017Me when i finally find the judges who released Jub jub &amp; Oscar pistorious on parole... pic.twitter.com/Ce6mtwdlj6 Blackbox (@NjaYaTeng) January 5, 2017Jub Jub went to jail when I was using iPhone 3, now there's iPhone 7...He doesn't even know instagram nowJub Jub going through the net to see who is the hottest rapper in SA like 'who the hell is Cassper nyovest?' pic.twitter.com/gdHeN9UC9nMe when i finally find the judges who released Jub jub &amp; Oscar pistorious on parole... pic.twitter.com/Ce6mtwdlj6Kelly after hearing Jub Jub is out pic.twitter.com/rjF1wLBHYM NSUKU RISTOW (@ristow900_nsuku) January 5, 2017Another 'artist' is already sowing divisions on these streets! Kodwa yini Jub Jub pic.twitter.com/8XKmbgkl9N Tumi Sole (@tumisole) January 5, 2017Kelly after hearing Jub Jub is out pic.twitter.com/rjF1wLBHYMAnother 'artist' is already sowing divisions on these streets! Kodwa yini Jub Jub pic.twitter.com/8XKmbgkl9NJub Jub and Themba Tshabalala were convicted for crashing their cars into a group of school children in 2010. The accident left four dead and two others brain damaged.Their initially 25-year sentence was overturned to eight years for culpable homicide in 2014. 