According to Sowetan, Pascal Mazibuko is set to release a song titled Mandoza uTshabalala next week, nearly four months after his record label boss died following a long battle with cancer.Pascal, who is a gangster-turned-musician, was the first artist signed by Mandoza under his Nkalakatha Records label. Mandoza's wife confirmed Pascal's addition to the label during her husband's funeral. His release will be the first from the label.The rapper wrote the song when Mandoza first fell ill, encouraging him to get better. He was able to perform it for his mentor a month before Mandoza's death in September last year and later performed the song at Mandoza's funeral.Take a look at that performance below.#MandozaFuneral - Newly signed artist sings his debut song "uMandoza uTshabalala, uNkalakatha, uGodoba.." pic.twitter.com/dMOn5YImAR Nontobeko Sibisi (@Nontobek0Sibisi) September 23, 2016#MandozaFuneral - Newly signed artist sings his debut song "uMandoza uTshabalala, uNkalakatha, uGodoba.." pic.twitter.com/dMOn5YImARSpeaking to the paper recently, Pascal said that he would probably still be living a life of crime if it had not been for Mandoza's influence in his life."I will forever thank Mandoza for helping me. Today, I am a husband and a father of two. He was the one who made me realise that I have talent and I needed to stop doing crime. When I moved to Port Elizabeth to start afresh, he used to come and check on me," Pascal said.The kwaito legend's death late last year shocked the nation, with tributes pouring in from friends and fans across the country. Stricken by illness, Mandoza performed one last time at the Thank You SABC Music Concert just days before his death.Several weeks after Mandoza's death, Pascal took to Facebook to share his heartbreak."The day I will never forget in my life. My king. My teacher. My boss, even now. My hero. My icon. My legend. My big brother. The day when he said I am ready now to blow up, I said I promise to make him proud," Pascal wrote.