On his release from the Boksburg prison parole centre after serving 28 years in jail and on day parole Motsamai knelt down to kiss the ground.He said he would work to unite the PAC now that he was out of prison.He thanked the EFF and his lawyer as well as Prophet Mboro for their support.Motsamai hugged his wife Mantombi and daughter Busi. Then he held his six-year-old grandson's hand. The little boy has spent the day at the prison waiting in the hot son for his grandfather's release.Motsamai has been on day parole for six months and spends a lot of time with his grandson as he didn't see his children growing up said his wife Mantombi.He stopped at McDonald's for a bite to eat minutes after leaving prison.Mboro who drives a flashy BMW i8 joined the family as well as supporters of the PAC and EFF to welcome him on his release.Accompanied by a bodyguard Mboro who's real name is Paseka Motsoeneng a pastor at the Incredible Happenings Ministries told TMG Digital he was making the donation for a car wash to Motsamai as a "sacrifice".A party is planned at the car wash.Mboro's flashy black sports car which is valued at R2 million caused the EFF crowd to gasp and pose for photos on front of it. But the pastor insisted he did not have a lot of money.Mboro claimed Motsamai has attended his church during his period of day parole."I have prayed for him."Motsamai was a PAC prisoner arrested in 1989 for the murder of a traffic officer during a bank robbery which was sanctioned by the party. The robberies were used to fund PAC activities.He was released on day parole about six months ago meaning he was out of prison during the day with an electronic tracking device but had to return to prison at night. The six-month term of the day parole expired yesterday but the parole board still had to meet and make a determination.Motsamai will not only have a job on his release - He is one of the political veterans who was awarded a state-funded house earlier this month.Until now he has been spending his day parole at his wife's house in Katlehong. His new house is in Daveyton also east of Johannesburg.He told the Sowetan in an interview on January 2: "I'm very happy that they ve given me a house. Not having a shelter is like not having land somebody can chase you away at any time. The PAC has ensured that after my release I'll go straight to my own house."On his release from the Boksburg prison parole centre after serving 28 years in jail and on day parole Motsamai knelt down to kiss the ground. He said he would work to unite the PAC now that he was out of prison. PAC spokesman Kenneth Mokgatlhe said that Motsamai's new house had been built through a housing programme between political parties and the government's military veterans department.While the PAC welcomed Motsamai's release this afternoon national chairperson Phillip Dlamini told TMG Digital there are more than 40 PAC political prisoners still behind bars. He charged that his party's political prisoners have been treated unfairly while MK political prisoners had been released in the years since apartheid.All photo's by Katharine Child.