The 18-year-old from Danville Park Girls High School in the upmarket Durban surburb of La Lucia achieved eight distinctions. She thanked her parents for her accolades during the announcement of the provincial matric results."I am so elated excited and grateful " she said shortly after leaving the stage. She attributed her achievement to "hard work" which alleviated the stress before the exams.Although she wants to pursue medicine she has not decided which university she will attend.But she was not worried about the #FeesMustFall protests that engulfed universities across the country last year bringing academic activities to a halt."It didn't impact on my studies negatively but I did think about it " she said.However for Reece Govender who scooped the second spot in last year's matric results in KwaZulu-Natal the violent student protests last year did prey on his mind."I was extremely concerned after watching news broadcasts. It was extremely concerning but I calmed down afterwards " he said after the media briefing.Govender who is going to study medicine at UKZN next month said he was elated with his distinctions."I am absolutely thrilled. It was very unexpected. I was hoping to be here but I did not expect to come second " said Govender from Wingen Heights Secondary School in Chatsworth. He thanked his parents and teachers for his achievements.Top KwaZulu-Natal achiever in accounting Sibongiseni Zondi was elated when he got a message from Wits on Thursday morning that he had been accepted for a B. Comm degree.Zondi 20 from Bizimali High School in Hammarsdale halfway between Durban and Pietermaritzburg had been worried that he would not get a place at any tertiary institution because of the #FeesMustFall protests."I was a bit scared and thought that I might not get a place because of last year's protests."He attributed his achievement to his one particular teacher. "I won't lie. I would like to credit my accounting teacher SP Madondo who dedicated all his time to me. We studied on weekends and holidays " Zondi said."Another contributing factor to my success was that our teachers are not driven by money but are addicted to their profession."I am so happy. I did not think that I would achieve so much." To check your results visit http://matric.sowetanlive.co.za/- TMG Digital/The Times