Both players finished on 18-under before playing the first two holes in the sudden death play-off in regulation. Storm who had held the lead from the second round was rewarded for remarkable consistency having played 54 holes between dropping shots. He bagged R2.3m for his effort and this was his first significant triumph since winning the French Open in 2007.Earlier, just when it looked like Northern Irishman McIlroy had subdued Storm's challenge the former let the Englishman back in.McIlroy found the green side bunker on the 17th and his first attempt to extricate himself came up short as the ball trickled back into the sand trap. The 'Ooo's' and 'aaah's' from the gallery was vocal confirmation of the gravity of the situation.McIlroy had to settle for bogey but so too did Englishman Jordan Smith which effectively killed off his challenge with one hole to play.McIlroy and Storm went par the 72nd hole to force a play-off.McIlroy had wiped out the three-shot deficit Storm held over him at the start of the final round with a closing 68. Storm managed a 71.Smith finished 17-under, to miss out on a play-off berth by a shot.Storm was over the moon and palpably relieved. It feels surreal, unbelievable. I had a great battle with Rory out there today. I knew what was going to come my way. I wasn't playing my best golf and was just trying to hang in there. He had to show nerves of steel at a time he knew he wasn't playing his best golf. It was more difficult playing the 72nd hole than it was playing the play-off, explained Storm. Rory was going to hit driver and blast his way up there because he can. I can't and I had to stick to my game plan and hope it goes my way. It looked like I was just hitting in the same position but that is what I was trying to do. I thought I holed that putt on the last play-off hole. I would much have preferred to hole the putt and Rory probably feels the same. Winning the second oldest national open holds special meaning for the man from Hartlepool. It certainly does. The three big tournaments that I've won the British Amateur and the French Open and the SA Open are all old and traditional. You just want to get your name on there. The leading South African was Dean Burmeister on 15-under with Trevor Fisher Jnr and Thomas Aiken a further shot back.