Filmmakers are tapping advances in digital technology to resurrect characters after a performer dies, most notably in Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. The film features the return of Grand Moff Tarkin, originally played by a long-dead actor.The trend has sent Hollywood actors in the here-and-now scrambling to exert control over how their characters and images are portrayed in the hereafter."Celebrities are increasingly involved in making plans to protect their intellectual property rights," said Mark Roesler, an attorney and chairman of CMG Worldwide, an agency representing celebrity estates."They understand that their legacy will continue beyond their lifetime." Roesler said at least 25 of his clients are negotiating the use of their computer-generated images in movies, television or commercials.Employment contracts govern how they can be used in a particular film or commercial, while a performer's will can address broader issues.Some actors or heirs worry that overexposure will tarnish a celebrity's image, Roesler said. Some explicitly rule out posthumous depictions involving sex or violence, while others focus on drugs or alcohol."We have seen people address marijuana," he said. "We've seen liquor addressed." As technology has improved, many living actors are more focused on steering their legacy with stipulations on how their images are used - or by forbidding their use.Robin Williams, who committed suicide in 2014, banned any use of his image for commercial means until 2039. He also blocked anyone from digitally inserting him into a movie or TV scene or using a hologram, as was done with rapper Tupac Shakur at Southern California's Coachella music festival in 2012 - 16 years after his murder.Virtual characters have been used when an actor dies in the middle of a film production, as when Universal Pictures combined CGI and previous footage for Paul Walker's role in 2015's Furious 7 after Walker's death in a car crash in 2013.But Rogue One broke new ground by giving a significant supporting role to a dead star. A digital embodiment of British actor Peter Cushing, who died in 1994, reprised his role from the original 1977 Star Wars film as Tarkin. Walt Disney recreated Tarkin with a mix of visual effects and a different actor.A Disney spokesman declined to comment on whether Princess Leia would appear in films beyond Episode VIII, set for release this year. Fisher had wrapped filming for the next Star Wars episode before she died. She suffered a heart attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles.Fisher had been expected to play a key role in the ninth instalment of the sci-fi saga, due for release in 2019.The rights of actors' heirs are rooted in a 1985 California law requiring filmmakers to obtain permission from a celebrity's estate to use their image after death.The law was enacted after a campaign by the son of Dracula actor Bela Lugosi, a lawyer who objected to widespread use of his late father's image.Celebrity deaths often spur big increases in sales of music and movies. Michael Jackson and Elvis Presley regularly top the Forbes list of dead celebrities with annual earnings of tens of millions of dollars.If Disney resurrects Leia, the costs could go much higher than what it might have to pay her surviving family. The technology and time involved in CGI recreations for major roles can make the prospect more costly than hiring even a first-tier actor.A bigger question for fans is whether the technology provides a realistic portrayal, said Mark Litwak, an entertainment attorney in Los Angeles."Most people in the movie industry don't think it's quite there yet," he said. "It's amazing what they can do, but it's not as good as a real actor." - Reuters