Last year they were third in the overall series and at the 2016 Rio Olympics they failed to win a medal.Considering their dominance since the World Series began in 1999 the shorter version of the game is in turmoil compared to the 15-man format in New Zealand. But failure is relative and their Sevens team only have to go back to Sydney 12 months ago for their last tournament victory.In fact last season they won twice before the wheels gradually came off. But former Kiwi Sevens star Karl Te Nana believes that the New Zealanders are close to finding their best form again.Playing on home soil in Wellington this weekend will certainly be a boost. In Dubai I think New Zealand were underdone well by South Africa who were just playing at a different level Te Nana told worldrugby.org. However in Cape Town I believe they started to find their rhythm and self belief."They are rebuilding still and trying out a new form of attacking sevens which is the way they want to play naturally. Coming back into a tournament [in Wellington] where they have experienced so much success gives them the perfect opportunity to start 2017 well."I wouldn't write them off. In another interesting subplot to the tournament former NZ coach Gordon Tietjens who led the country to all of its 12 titles and a Sevens World Cup is coaching Samoa. It s the first time Tietjens has led another country in the series and the fact that Samoa are bitter NZ rivals and drawn in the same pool in Wellington adds spice to the situation. "I'm sure it will feel a bit strange for him [Tietjens] walking out onto the turf at the Westpac Stadium with a different team but he's a proud man and he'll want his new team to perform Te Nana said. I know he's had a training camp in New Zealand with his Samoan team so they will be very prepared."They've had some success having previously won the series and more recently winning their first tournament since 2012 when they took the Cup at the HSBC Paris Sevens."Samoa always enjoy huge support in Wellington so they will be a force." - TMG Digital