Abel Bonita Caldeira, 23, and another Briton, Miles Dicken Turner, are being sought by Thai police in connection with the killing of businessman Tony Kenway in the southern Thai city of Pattaya.As details of the crime surfaced, relatives of Caldeira reacted in disbelief."It can't be - not our Abel," his uncle, Jose Caldeira, said.Caldeira and Turner are suspected of shooting Kenway in the head on Tuesday as he sat in his Porsche - all of which was caught on CCTV.The footage shows the killer opening the door of Kenway's red Porsche Cayenne, shooting him, then fleeing on a motorbike ridden by an accomplice.Police traced the bike to a rental company that had copies of the men's passports on file. They searched the men's accommodation but they had already left.Jose Caldeira, who was responsible for raising his nephew after the boy's father died, said he was incapable of such an act."He is a good Catholic boy. He has never hurt anyone in his life," he said. "We just cannot believe what we have heard. Abel is definitely not a mobster or a hitman, that's for sure."Jose said Caldeira's mother, Albertina, had phoned him on Thursday morning to tell him the news."She had not heard from Abel for 10days. He works in a bar at a resort. The next thing she sees on national TV that he is an internationally wanted fugitive."As the family tries to gather information on Caldeira's whereabouts, Jose said they were receiving death threats."Unknown people are contacting us and telling us they will come for us. Albertina is going into hiding. We are all scared," he said.Jose said all they wanted was for Caldeira to contact them."We don't know where he is or what he has got himself mixed up in. People must just understand that this is not the Abel we know."Abel Caldeira owned and ran the Settlers' Pub in Orkney, North West, but sold it last year and joined his mother and stepfather, Louis Traut, in Cambodia.Traut left a curt message on Caldeira's Facebook page saying: "Call me."Sohandri Naude, 17, who worked for Caldeira at his bar, said she could not believe he would be involved in a murder."He liked peace. When there was trouble at the bar, he would always try to solve it peacefully," she said.Naude's mother, Nicky, who knew Caldeira through visiting his bar, described him as friendly."He had good manners and always tried to help people. He would always go out of his way to treat me with respect," Naude said.A cousin who did not want to be named said he had not seen Caldeira for a few years but "this takes everyone by surprise. He really is a nice kid, friendly and very sociable. I just can't believe what I am hearing".One of Caldeira's friends from Milner High School, in Orkney, North West, said he "was a very calm person. Always friendly".The wife of the murdered Kenway is reported to have told the police that her husband had set up a website design company in Thailand.He is also said to have run an online football gambling website.Thai police believe that Caldeira and Turner have left the country but said they were working with the police in Cambodia to find them."They are the main suspects," said a police spokesman.A police source in Pattaya told MailOnline that a football gambling website set up by Kenway, which might have caused a rift with rival companies, was being investigated.Deputy national spokesman for the Thai police Colonel Krissana Pattanacharoen said: "The court has issued an arrest warrant for them."They are jointly charged with premeditated murder, illegal possession of a firearm and carrying weapons without permission."Krissana said Caldeira and Turner were identified through witness testimony and evidence gathered since the killing on Tuesday.The South African authorities say they have not received a request for assistance from the Thai authorities. - Additional reporting by Dave Chambers