The pic, from Ko's tweet on January 3, reads: "Honoured to receive @Sollymsimanga mayor of @CityTshwane, who's also willing to transcend politics and strive for improving citizens' lives."Those 140 characters were thumbed noses at the ANC, also at the politically connected Chinese living in South Africa. The ANC, through the Department of International Relations and Co-operation, has been spluttering mad at Msimanga's trip, calling the visit a breach of foreign policy.South Africa's diplomatic ties with the People's Republic of China mean South Africa falls in line with China's "One China" policy and doesn't recognise Taiwan as a sovereign country. (For that matter, it doesn't recognise Tibet and its leader, the Dalai Lama, either.)Msimanga's office has maintained his visit was an "exploratory trip" to bolster trade and job creation in Tshwane. He said the trip was made on his personal time and not undertaken with taxpayers' money. He arrived back in the capital city to the outrage of the department and the ANC.The ANC's reaction was expected, less so the public reaction of some Chinese nationals living in South Africa. Representatives from the community prepared an open letter this week to the DA, written in English.The letter slams Msimanga for "showing no concern that the China-Taiwan split should be brought to an end" and saying the visit "creates troubles for all friendly co-operation between China and South Africa".It disparages Msimanga's claims of trade and job creation, noting that China's trade volumes and value with South Africa outstrip Taiwan's by hundreds of billions of rands annually. The letter demands a formal apology from Msimanga, a promise from the DA that another such trip will never happen again "now that it has learnt its lessons", and also states that the Chinese community associations reserve "the right to take further action should there be further development" - though it does not outline what this would entail.Manoeuvring outside closed community circles, WeChat groups or deferring to the Chinese Embassy's official communiqu s, marks a distinct shift for these Chinese in South Africa. Inserting themselves publicly and directly into the political picture is a statement about a maturing migrant population that understands what power it can wield.There are an estimated 300,000 Chinese in South Africa - future voters, future taxpayers. This community now also hugely outnumbers South Africa-born Chinese and the Taiwanese combined. They straddle two worlds, China and Africa, one with superpower status and one with money-making potential to harness given the right tug of political and economic strings.Businessman Simon Shi is the co-ordinator of the open letter to the DA. He is chairman of the Shanghai Business Association in South Africa, has lived in the country since the mid-1990s, and is an ANC member. He says the open letter has the support of another 105 representatives from the dozens of Chinese associations that exist in South Africa today. The associations represent the many regions across the Chinese mainland and are a soft landing for newcomers and a way to cement business ties based on old familiarities.Shi says: "On this issue the Chinese had to stand up and stop hiding because the reunification issue of Taiwan and China is an old pain that has been used by the DA to hurt the Chinese."The growing visibility of the community, its louder voice and its clear alignment to political power, makes this a story as much about an island in the South China Sea as it does about a community plotting its future in this corner of Africa.