That's according to Amanda Richards who posted a graphic picture of her friend Riaan van der Westhuizen's arm - swollen and infected - on Facebook on Sunday after he was hijacked and his arm was slashed during a hijacking.According to Richards Van der Westhuizen's condition has deteriorated allegedly because of maltreatment and neglect including being made to wait in casualty for two hours before he was treated being given paracetamol for pain and indifferent nurses.Since Sunday people have reacted with outrage after Van der Westhuizen s friend Amanda Richards expressed her disgust and posted a video taken by the patient of the deplorable conditions of the bathroom at RK Khan Hospital in Chatsworth.She said Van der Westhuizen had spent over two weeks in hospital and he had not been operated on yet his nerve ending needed to be reattached. To date nothing has been done for him. Pain treatment came in the form of Panado tablets (next to useless for this type of injury). Now his wounds are infected and he hasn't been given so much as an antibiotic to treat it. After complaining to the staff he was moved to a ward even worse than the first. She said the video she posted showed the disgusting conditions of the bathroom. How is this allowed? Why is the ANC government being allowed to treat its citizens no better than animals? They have the audacity to complain about Israel while they're guilty of such shocking human rights abuse in their own hospitals. I'm sick and tired of us citizens complaining about poorly run government departments while nothing ever changes. There's always money available for party birthday celebrations luxury vehicles and plenty of expenditure wastage deluxe but what about our hospitals? This man could very well lose his arm with such neglect said Richards.Shelley Anne Pfister Grant suggested on Facebook that someone open a Go Fund Me page to raise money to get Van der Westhuizen to a private hospital.Lary Thackeray said: It looks like shit why do we pay tax time to stop. Carl Pistorius said: The ANC elected Zuma is the infection and rot that costs everyone of us South Africans. His days are numbered. He will be held accountable in this life and the next. While Caryn Bonorchis said it was absolutely disgusting and StevenPenny Louw Haggard said he was totally disgusted and shocked at the filth.Sam Mkhwanazi KZN department of health spokesman said while patient records were confidential the department had noted with concern allegations raised by the media." Without prejudice the Department can state that it has been informed by management of one of its hospitals that a certain patient has been admitted for the past three weeks and continues to receive the highest possible level of care possible."-TMG Digital/The Times