The two unfancied sides managed to progress to the knockout phase and now have a priceless opportunity to go for the title.But the focus on Saturday will be firmly on the day s other game when hot favourites Senegal take on Cameroon in Franceville (kick off 9pm SA time).Saturday s two quarter-final matches are followed by two more on Sunday as the field at the 16-team continental tournament continues to shrink.Senegal s impressive opening two matches at the tournament in Gabon allowed them to secure qualification and rest almost all of their regulars for the last game against Algeria which they drew 2-2.Now the likes of Sadio Mane Idrissa Gueye and Kalilou Koulibaly return to action in Franceville as Senegal carry the tag of favourites into the knockout phase.Too often in the recent past the Senegalese have been imbued with similarly classy footballers and yet flopped.There is every chance that feisty Cameroon could inflict the same calamity upon them.Cameroon s coach Hugo Broos has made sweeping changes over the last year to the team drastically removing those he felt were not sufficiently committed to the country s cause and introducing a raft of youngsters.He was also hit by the withdrawal on the eve of the tournament of eight players from his preliminary squad.But Cameroon s new-look generation have shown immediate signs of fight and the potential to grow into a formidable team as the roar is put back into the Indomitable Lions.Eliminating Gabon in their last match was proof of that said coach Hugo Broos. My team reassured me it was strong on the mental level against the host country and was able to cope with the pressure " Broos said."We know that we have to be at our best to beat Senegal and I can assure you that we will have our chances."Senegal was impressive but we have our own ideas to get past them either in the 90 minutes in extra time or later. Senegal s coach Aliou Cisse also speaking at a press conference on Friday warned that talent alone would not be enough for his side to advance.For Burkina Faso and Tunisia it is a wide open contest in Libreville in the day s first game (kick off 6pm SA time) This has been a competition with a high level which has had some big casualties said Burkina coach Paulo Duate. We are among the eight best teams in Africa and this is something to be proud of."Finishing top of our group does not make us favourites but gives us confidence. It also gives us a kind of responsibility."Every opponent in the last eight is strong. I m expecting a strong Tunisian side. His counterpart Henryk Kasperczak added: I have a lot of confidence in my squad they have progressed well. We know that anything is possible everything is possible."If we have our chances we can take them. Burkina Faso also created a lot of chances and they also scored goals."We have a problem in defence."We ve conceded five goals up to now. This is what we have worked on to readjust and reorganise."Burkina are a quick side who are dangerous it something we have to pay attention to. - TMG Digital