Thoughout his career the forthright witty cheeky and at times combustible coach has delighted the press and public with his colourful quotes.Here are seven of Jingles finest one-liners:1. After Sundowns were thrashed 5-0 by Bloemfontein Celtic at Lucas Moripe Stadium in 2015: I have seen nine I have seen eight I have seen seven against AmaZulu. So in my life I have had eight and nine also and so why can t we also accept that will get five? 2. After a win against Orlando Pirates: Sundowns showed integrity Sundowns showed tactical discipline. My players were sweating blood tonight. They were eating grass. 3. After a defeat against Polokwane City: It was a nice dimmed parked bus you can t move the bus. But I understand Boebie [Solomons] needs the points and they needed them more than us. That s why their central defender was man of the match. 4. After winning a Q1 Q-Innovation prize for leading the PSL in the first quarter: This Q-somethings they don t mean a lot hey. Okay it is good it is motivation but it is sardines. You can win Q1 and Q4 and you don t win the league. What is that? You must catch the big fish. 5. After a game against SuperSport United: SuperSport United and Mamelodi Sundowns coaches don t play for a draw. We opened the floodgates. It was not a Floyd Mayweather fight it was a Mike Tyson fight. We kill each other. Everybody got the thrill. 6. Referring to Orlando Pirates winger Daine Klate after a defeat to Sundowns in the Nedbank Cup: But there is a player who is always on the floor. You touch him a little bit he rolls like he s been shot from the top. The next minute he continues to play. No this is a man s game. Let s all play. Look at [Oupa] Manyisa look at [Thandani] Ntshumayelo these boys are strong they play they are not on the floor every minute every second. What is this? 7. After Anthony Laffor's goal against Chippa United put Downs into the last year's MTN8 final: I always ask Anthony Laffor: Why can t you be in the starting line-up? I mean you ve got so much speed and technique . He s such a good football player why should he be coming from the bench. But somewhere somehow you play him in the first XI from the start of the game and you don t get much. I end up substituting him after 45 minutes and then I ve lost a sub. So he comes up at the right time. Against Tuks [in the PSL game where Sundowns wrapped up the title in 2015-16] I asked him: Laffor we have a big game and we need to win the league. I don t want to have to wait to go to Wits and fight for it there. And he started and scored a hat-trick. He s been a very difficult player trust me. Anthony Laffor and [Downs right-back] Asavela Mbekile are difficult people. Forgive me. No it s not easy. I don t know if today Are you playing or are you not going to play? I think Mbekile s a fine right-back. But one day he ll give you a wonder game. At Zesco he did very well when he came in. And it s the life of a coach. We re dealing with very difficult characters. You ve got 25 characters. - TMG Digital