The international company that launched in Johannesburg in 1987 has covered the walls of all six of its Washington DC locations with posters stating that the fast food outlet is an immigrant employing gay loving Muslim respecting racism opposing equal paying multicultural restaurant .The posters are part of a campaign entitled #EveryoneisWelcome .On Inauguration Day and beyond, even if you ve never sat at one of our tables, you re welcome to stand with us. #EveryoneIsWelcome pic.twitter.com/cn24LOzN2t Nando's PERi-PERi (@NandosUSA) January 9, 2017 On Inauguration Day and beyond, even if you ve never sat at one of our tables, you re welcome to stand with us. #EveryoneIsWelcome pic.twitter.com/cn24LOzN2tThe chicken outlet well-known for its witty advertising campaigns which often lampoon political leaders launched the campaign as president elect Donald Trump prepares to move into the White House in two weeks. Many of his statements on minorities and foreigners have been seen as divisive rhetoric. The Nando's brand and its DNA is at the core of all that we do including marketing communications said Sepanta Bagherpour vice president of marketing for Nando's Peri Peri USA. While Nando s is synonymous with this kind of topical communication in South Africa says Bagherpour the motivation behind the campaign in the United States comes from matters close to home in Washington where we will be hosting hundreds of thousands of visitors with massively different points of view over the next few weeks . In these polarising times we wanted to introduce ourselves to them through a statement of our values both as a company and as the people who work at Nando's. The company is taking the message to the streets and is busy distributing 60 000 #EveryoneIsWelcome posters to people in the Washington area. A message on the back of these posters reads: Even if you ve never sat at one of our tables you re welcome to stand with us .Nando s in the US is headquartered in Washington DC and is a company-owned and operated business. The casual dining restaurant opened its first US location in Washington s Chinatown in 2008 under the name Nando s Peri Peri.Although it has found itself in hot water over the years the company has never chickened out . Some of the most notorious campaigns include a television advertisement featuring Julius Malema then president of the ANC Youth League; a gravy train advert that satirized corrupt politicians; and the 2011 last dictator standing advert that featured a Robert Mugabe look-alike.The latter advert was pulled by the company after their staff in Zimbabwe were threatened by a group loyal to the president and Zanu PF leader.- TMG Digital/The Times