The 30-year-old mom from Pongola in northern KwaZulu-Natal was distraught when she lost her prematurely-born twins a year ago. But those tears have been wiped away giving birth to a healthy boy and a healthy girl on New Year s Day.Hlatshwayo s twins were born at Pongola s Itshelejuba Hospital: Sibanesihle arrived at 3.30am followed by her brother Senzelwe at 3.45am.Both weighed in at 1.5kg. While they are small they have been given a clean bill of health. On Monday mom and her twins were still in hospital as the medical staff were looking after the babies and running post-natal medical procedures.Hlatshwayo does not know when they will be discharged but cannot wait to take them home. I still cannot believe it. And I didn t know I was carrying twins again. The ones that I lost were also a boy and a girl. God has His way of bringing comfort. I actually prayed to have twins again. I m blessed and I m lucky said the soft-spoken Hlatshwayo from Kwakhiphunyawo.Department of Health spokesman Sam Mkhwanazi said Hlatshwayo and the twins have been given a clean bill of health.Hlatshwayo called home hours after the birth and said her family was excited especially given what happened with her last pregnancy. They were elated. They are saying that these babies are here to wipe away the family s tears she said.Hlatshwayo s twins were among 66 babies - 35 boys and 31 girls - who were born on New Year s Day at KwaZulu-Natal public healthcare facilities.KZN Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo and his head of department Sifiso Mtshali visited Murchison Hospital in Port Shepstone to hand out gifts to two mothers who delivered their New Year s babies there.However Dhlomo expressed concern that among the expectant mothers in the hospital s gynaecology ward was a 14-year-old girl.Dhlomo said that teenage mothers by sheer virtue of their age are neither physiologically nor psychologically ready to bear children saying this often leads to serious health complications which may result in the death of the mother her baby or both. A ward such as this one is normally not for teenagers certainly not a 14-year-old. Therefore once again I wish to register our deep concern about teenage pregnancy in the province. It is very unsafe when young people fall pregnant at such a young age. If you re a young person under the age of 18 chances of delivering safely are slim he said.TMG Digital/Sunday Times 