Malema had Twitter in a huff this week when he took on ANC activist and TV personality Shaka Sisulu.The pair locked horns after Shaka seemed to take a swipe at the EFF leader's highly-publicised weight loss, suggesting that diet product Herbex had made Malema more "sober and mature." Malema hit back by claiming that Shaka was the one in need of diet pills.Their stinging exchange had everyone talking, but of course it wasn't the first time that Malema had found himself in the headlines for his Twitter feuds.Here are just five times Malema caused a frenzy with his spicy Twitter wars.Malema vs AKAAKA took to Twitter in May last year to openly declare himself as a supporter of the ANC and claimed that he had boycotted EFF and DA events.His comments about the EFF angered the party's national spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, who responded by asking why the rapper would boycott an event attended by people who buy his music.The debate escalated until Julius Malema stepped in to warn AKA about assuming that everyone in the EFF was against him.@akaworldwide be specific because people will think there's a collective position against you by us,we have not arrived at that yet... Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) May 20, 2016@akaworldwide be specific because people will think there's a collective position against you by us,we have not arrived at that yet...@akaworldwide it's ok,enjoy your freedom. We have nothing against you just don't make the EFF ur enemy,we don't care about your affiliation Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) May 20, 2016@akaworldwide it's ok,enjoy your freedom. We have nothing against you just don't make the EFF ur enemy,we don't care about your affiliationMalema vs Zwai BalaA month earlier, Malema had found himself in the midst of a twitter war with musician Zwai Bala after Zwai called out the politician for referring to speaker of the National Assembly Baleka Mbete by her first name. Most South Africans have a stance on the local politics and have every right to express their views. But as Africans respect is standard and inexcusable. And for Julius to disrespectfully call Ms Mbete by her first name can never be correct by African standards. Irresponsible of a leader Zwai tweeted.Malema hit back by warning Zwai to "never impose" his African standards on him.@ZwaiBala you must never impose your African standards on me Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) April 5, 2016@ZwaiBala you must never impose your African standards on meMalema vs DJ SbuA feud between Malema and popular media personality DJ Sbu erupted in 2014 after reports that Malema had promised to liberate artists from record labels.DJ Sbu, who co-owns TS Records, responded in a tweet to Malema, saying: "No one takes what this idiot says seriously. You had so much potential, Julius. You blew it. Now all you do is lie. Good luck. Malema responded by shading DJ Sbu's credentials as a radio host.@djsbu but Is not a lie that u don't have a Radio voice Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) May 6, 2014@djsbu but Is not a lie that u don't have a Radio voice@djsbu and you know how u got the job at the SABC... Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) May 6, 2014@djsbu and you know how u got the job at the SABC...Malema vs Kenny KuneneMalema went head-to-head with controversial businessman Kenny Kunene in September last year, after Kenny accused the EFF leader of being a sell-out, "liar" and of leading a fake revolution, in an interview with SABC 2's Morning Live.Julius took to Twitter after the interview to respond to Kenny's comments, labelling the businessman "irrelevant" and said he would not entertain Kenny until he was able to "get 20,000 national votes".He must first get 20k national votes before he gets at least a mention from me not even a debate otherwise he remains irrelevant,Ok... Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) September 21, 2016He must first get 20k national votes before he gets at least a mention from me not even a debate otherwise he remains irrelevant,Ok...Malema vs Fikile MbalulaThe pair have bumped heads on Twitter several times over the last three years. In perhaps one of their most famous duels, back in 2014, Malema and Mbalula retweeted images of each other appearing to show off their flashy lifestyles, before getting into an argument about corruption.@MbalulaFikile who paid for ur 40th birthday? Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) September 30, 2014@MbalulaFikile if we where to tell a story of where you get some of your money people will be shocked Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) September 30, 2014@MbalulaFikile @NzingaQ as if u don't wear LV. If wearing LV belt makes people not to be revolutionary then u too are no revolutionary Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) September 30, 2014@MbalulaFikile hypocrisy defines you,who are you to lecture us of corruption Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) September 30, 2014@MbalulaFikile who paid for ur 40th birthday?@MbalulaFikile if we where to tell a story of where you get some of your money people will be shocked@MbalulaFikile @NzingaQ as if u don't wear LV. If wearing LV belt makes people not to be revolutionary then u too are no revolutionary@MbalulaFikile hypocrisy defines you,who are you to lecture us of corruption@MbalulaFikile we had TV even today so ur argument falls off,we wear what we like. Since when are u a stylist Mr minister? Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) September 30, 2014@MbalulaFikile we had TV even today so ur argument falls off,we wear what we like. Since when are u a stylist Mr minister?