Quality assurer uMalusi is delighted that there has been a steady improvement in the marks obtained by the matric class of 2017 for Mathematics‚ Mathematical Literacy‚ Physical Science and Life Sciences. UMalusi Council chairperson John Volmink said this positive improvement in these key subjects could be attributed to a number of factors such as the learner support provided by the Department of Basic Education in the 11 high enrollment subjects‚ support for progressed learners and support for top achievers. “However‚ some of the subjects that do not fall under the category of gateway subjects such as Dramatic Arts‚ Visual Arts and Agricultural Science need to be given more attention and be afforded the status that they deserve in terms of providing them with the necessary resources‚ for example‚ Learning and Teaching Support Material‚” he said in Pretoria on Friday. Volmink said there have been some challenges in subjects such as Geography‚ Accounting and Information Technology. He said some of these challenges had to do with technical matters and others had to do with new content or with alignment with the Curriculum and Assessment Policy Statement (CAPS) guidelines. Volmink said the fact that in 2017 raw marks have been accepted for 12 more subjects compared to 2016 was an indication of a maturing and an improving system since the introduction of CAPS four years ago. He said the learner performance of the cohort of 2017 has moved closer to the average historical performance profile. Volmink said there were 104‚001(16%) progressed learners in the Class of 2017‚ which he said was slightly down from the 108‚742 of 2016. He said uMalusi had taken note of the evidence-based reports on interventions and improvement strategies implemented by both national and provincial education authorities for learners in general and for progressed learners in particular and the positive impact of these on the overall performance as well as on teaching and learning and assessment. “It is important to note that while the class of 2017 is the 10th cohort of learners to sit for the NSC it is only the 4th cohort to write the CAPS-aligned NSC Examination. So while the 2017 cohort has benefited from the maturity of the NSC system over the past 10 years‚ the CAPS-aligned system introduced in 2014 is slowly beginning to strengthen after only four years‚” he said. Volmink said they have put in place rigorous and robust procedures that provide assurance that all learners receive appropriate recognition for their performance in line with agreed national standards so that no learner should feel that they were born in the wrong year.