Global human rights movement Amnesty International has appointed Kumi Naidoo as its next Secretary General. “His vision and passion for a just and peaceful world make him an outstanding leader for our global movement‚ as we strengthen our resolve for a world where human rights are enjoyed by all‚” Mwikali Muthiani‚ chair of the Board of Amnesty International‚ said of Naidoo. The organisation said the Secretary General is the leader and main spokesperson for Amnesty International and the Chief Executive of its International Secretariat. Amnesty International is the largest human rights movement globally‚ with a global presence including offices in more than 70 countries‚ 2‚600 staff and seven million members‚ volunteers and supporters worldwide. Naidoo is an activist and civil society leader. His previous leadership roles include executive director of Greenpeace International‚ chair of the Global Call for Climate Action‚ founding chair of the Global Call to Action against Poverty and Secretary General and CEO of CIVICUS‚ the World Alliance for Citizen Participation. He currently chairs three start-up organisations in South Africa: Africans Rising for Justice‚ Peace and Dignity; the Campaign for a Just Energy Future; and the Global Climate Finance Campaign. Naidoo holds a BA in Law and Political Science (University of KwaZulu-Natal) and a DPhil in Politics (University of Oxford). “I have been an activist and campaigner all my life‚ so I am excited to be joining the world’s largest people movement for human rights at a time when we need to counter increasing attacks on basic freedoms and on civil society around the globe. This means adapting to a fluid fast-changing global environment with urgency‚ passion and with courage‚” said Naidoo. “Amnesty International’s campaigns for justice and equality today are more urgent than ever‚ and I am humbled and honored to be leading the organization in these challenging times.” Shetty said: “The world is at an exciting moment when people across the world are mobilising in large numbers to fight against injustice and hold leaders in governments and corporations to account for human rights abuses. . . I am delighted to hand over the reins when for the first time in Amnesty’s history‚ we have both the Secretary General and Board Chair from Africa.” The Secretary General is appointed by the International Board of Amnesty International for an Naidoo's appointment is for a four year term. The appointment followed an extensive global search‚ the organsation said.