Just because AKA and Cassper seem to have buried the hatchet on their explosive feud, that doesn't mean that 2017 didn't have its fair share of musical blowouts. Some of the biggest names in music took to social media this year to air their grievances and get into heated arguments with their rivals, including Nasty C, Dr Malinga and Emtee. Here are just three feuds that left us shook this year. The year started off with fireworks, after rapper iFani took to Twitter in March to lambast Cassper's single Tito Mboweni. In a series of tweets he labelled the song as "trash" and pleaded with Cassper to not waste his time by shooting a music video for it. Twitter roasted iFani over his comments and claimed it was a sad attempt at trying to be relevant. Cassper responded on the same platform, explaining that he would address the issue on his album. "There's a lot going on and they want me to say something. I'm a musician, I make music. I'm not a tweleb. If I have something to say, it'll be on my album," he hit back.  In perhaps the strangest feuds Mzansi has seen for a while, Dr Malinga took to social media after the Metro FM Awards at the start of the year to accuse his younger rival of buying awards.  Nasty C didn't take it lying down and posted a video labelling Dr Malinga a “103-year-old f*cking gimmick"  who pretends to be kicking a plane on stage.  Dr Malinga responded with a series of tweets mocking his rival and telling him he would kick him like a mosquito. The pair later made-up and posted a picture together to prove they were cool. Things got so heated between Emtee and Cruz that the pair even ended up in court amidst intimidation and defamation claims. The trouble started after Cruz wrote a diss track about Emtee in which he made several claims about the rapper's talent and love life. The feud progressed to include several heated exchanges on Twitter before Emtee threatened Cruz, only for Cruz to open a case against the Roll Up rapper. The pair were later both featured on DJ Njabulo's single Controversy. 