Comedian Tumi Morake is struggling to deal with the backlash after she made an insensitive comment about Down Syndrome on a comedy show that was broadcast recently. On the Roast Comedy Battle Morake told Schalk Bezuidenhout: “You are two p*** klaps away from Down Syndrome.” After it aired again last week‚ people roasted her on Facebook. She issued an apology on Wednesday‚ revealing that she has a family member with the genetic disorder and promised that she will “make it right” but many parents are still hurt. Warda Hill from Cape Town - who has a four-year-old daughter with Down Syndrome - said not only was Morake's comment ''hurtful'' but it was difficult to watch people laugh at the joke. "An apology is not enough. If you had a niece with Down Syndrome you would never use that as a punch line. I feel she should not just apologise on Facebook…she should go out into the community and show [how apologetic she is] because actions speak louder than words‚'' said Hill who had to leave the job she loved because he daughter had a serious heart condition. "Does [Morake] know how it feels when the doctor tells you your child has Down Syndrome and there is nothing they can do?" Another mother‚ who asked not to be named‚ said Morake and South Africans should be educated about the disorder. "The comments were very hurtful. People need to understand that comments like this does not only affect the individual with Down Syndrome‚ it affects the whole family - siblings‚ grandparents etc. It angers me that my child has to grow up in a world where I constantly have to defend her or turn a blind eye to the ignorant comments.'' said the mother of three. Meanwhile Morake’s manager‚ Osman Osman‚ said the comment has been ''taken out of context''. “She never really spoke about Down Syndrome children. From her statement you can gather that she was very remorseful‚ she has apologised as well‚” said Osman. He said that the comedian has decided to show her support for those with Down Syndrome and their affected families in the new year. “She is on holiday at the moment‚ she has switched her phone off. She is taking it in her stride. Being in [the radio and comedy] industry…is not easy. She is making the best of it. It was never malicious. She never intended on offending anyone. Her sister’s child has Down Syndrome.” Osman said the comedy special was filmed last year and aired on Comedy Central earlier this year. It was aired again on Wednesday evening.