On the second issue Khoza called a press conference at Rand Stadium to address Bucs chairman assured that his club would cooperate fully with the law to see that the perpetrators of Saturday s violence at the Premier Soccer League match against Downs were brought to justice.On the coaching issue Khoza said that Pirates had been waiting for a head coach who has a buyout clause preventing him from leaving his current position until May.Bucs chairman said the extent of the drubbing at the hands of Sundowns had increased the urgency and now the club would have to explore other options to make an announcement on Monday. A 6-1 loss [against SuperSport United in November] by a club of the stature of Orlando Pirates is unacceptable Khoza said. For that to be followed by a 6-0 loss is rubbing salt into a wound. This [Monday] afternoon we will be meeting with the technical team to get to the bottom of the problem. There is no denying there is a problem. It is not an easy task to find a coach for a team of the stature of Orlando Pirates FC. When we have found the coach the pressure on them is enormous. This is the reason why when we lose a coach we look to an insider in an attempt at stability until a replacement is found. It has worked in the past. It is proving to be a challenge this time around. Unfortunately the candidate identified who we were going to announce by the end of January is under contract at another team. He has a buyout clause for the next five months which is prohibitive. What I can guarantee this meeting is that by next week Monday because of what has happened we will be announcing our new coach. On the pitch invasion and fan fighting sparked by Percy Tau s 82nd-minute sixth goal for Sundowns after which 13 people are reported to have been treated for injuries Khoza said: Violence has no place in our football. No matter how strong we feel no matter how aggrieved we are when we engage in violence it defeats the legitimacy of our grievances. I pronounce here today that the club s unequivocal clear plain and unambiguous position is for the law to take its course. [In] our democracy there is a specific law governed by an Act SASREA the Safety at Sports and Recreational Events Act. I commit that this matter will receive the highest priority in accordance with the law. A failure to do so will result in a deterioration that will affect the following of football the sponsors the broadcasters and the public in ways that will erode the gains we have made and should defend bitterly. Palacios has served as caretaker after Muhsin Ertugral s resignation the morning after the thrashing by SuperSport on November 1.Pirates long-time development head and often caretaker in a head coaching crisis managed three wins in his first three games but since then Bucs have not won in seven matches losing three and drawing four.Bucs are entrenched in the bottom half of the PSL in 10th place.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport