The Doc Shebeleza hitmaker is one of the best-selling artists in the country but told fans recently that he hardly hears his music on radio.Responding to one fan's suggestion that radio compliers had largely ignored Cassper's second album, Refiloe, Cassper said that radio should have celebrated his songs more.They slept on my whole album bro. Monate so, 428 to La , Malome, Find My Way, Cooking in the kitchen and Fever should have been BIG SONGS. https://t.co/PApsPBY7eN Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) February 1, 2017They slept on my whole album bro. Monate so, 428 to La , Malome, Find My Way, Cooking in the kitchen and Fever should have been BIG SONGS. https://t.co/PApsPBY7eNIt doesn't hurt me anymore that people slept on Refiloe as an album cause I got a better project on the way. My best work yet. Undeniable! Abuti Fill Up (@CassperNyovest) February 1, 2017It doesn't hurt me anymore that people slept on Refiloe as an album cause I got a better project on the way. My best work yet. Undeniable!It's a gripe that Cassper has kept since he ranted that radio should start treating him like Beyonc back in 2015.The situation seemed to get better late last year when Cassper decided to personally deliver his latest single, Abashwe, to radio stations and begged fans to request the song on radio shows.Cassper later called on fans to let him know when a station played his music and then documented it on his Twitter page.Radio stations have yet to responded to Cassper's complaint but SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago told TshisaLIVE that playlists were decided by each station according to what they felt was appropriate for their audience."It does not matter who you are or whether you are well-known, your music has to be submitted to a station for consideration. A committee will then look at a number of factors, including whether the song is any good and whether it fits in the target market of the station."If your music fits the criteria, it will be playlisted. But if it is not, you must go back and ask them why it was not playlisted and they will tell you," Kaizer said.