That impassioned plea was made yesterday by a Nigerian businessman who owns a spares shop in Jeppestown, Johannesburg.The man, who identified himself as Kingston, has not opened his shop since renewed xenophobic attacks broke out two weeks ago.Violence flared again on Sunday night when people described as "hostel dwellers" began attacking shops and a creche in the area, leading to the deployment of tactical police units."The situation is very tense at the moment. We are scared of operating because of the attacks."We are not getting any form of protection from the government. They should go where the drugs are."I'm proudly Nigerian and I don't deal in drugs."They must find the drug dealers and arrest them," he said. The way foreigners are labelled is wrong."The problem comes from the top. They must stop using our blood for politics."Like Kingston, Charles Ntui, from Cameroon, has lost faith in the government."I can't tell the government how to deal with these xenophobic attacks. They know what they have to do."We don't feel safe. Even from where I am standing, I feel scared," he said.Ntui is the owner of Edu-Cent Day in Jeppestown, which was broken into and looted on Sunday night.The cr che is now ruined and empty. Only the remnants of broken glass, plates and a couple of children's aprons can be seen on the premises.An angry Ntui said he was left with no choice but to close the cr che down."What can I do? I am not gaining anything from this."The only thing that is left for me now is to just pack up and go."This cr che was looking after children of whom at least 80% were South African. The staff I employed here are all South Africans."When The Times visited the cr che, Ntui and his staff were packing up and taking what was left in the premises as police patrolled the area.He believes the incident was "carefully" planned."This is a planned act. It is well-organised. Their own shops were not hit by the attacks," he said, referring to those businesses owned by South Africans.While the area was calm yesterday, shop owners were boarding up their stores.Others were operating behind locked gates."They tried to break into my shop, but I called the police and they shot them with rubber bullets," said Shanidul Islam, the owner of Babbly supermarket, while he and his staff barricaded the shop with iron sheets."When the police leave, [the looters] come back to attack us."Member of the mayoral committee for safety in Johannesburg Michael Sun said metro police would be patrolling the area day and night to contain the attacks in Jeppestown.A march against xenophobic attacks, planned for Friday last week to the Union Buildings in Pretoria, was postponed and will now be held next month. - TMG Digital