His last work - Apple's sprawling new headquarters in Cupertino, California - will be a fitting tribute: a futuristic campus built with astonishing attention to detail. From the arrangement of electrical wiring to the finish of a hidden pipe, no aspect of the 260,000m main building - a massive ring of glass frequently likened to a spaceship - has been too small to attract scrutiny.When completed, the campus will house up to 14200 employees. The main building - which boasts the world's largest piece of curved glass - will be surrounded by a lush canopy of thousands of trees.But what was most striking to those who worked on the project was Apple managers' insistence on treating the construction of the vast complex the same way they approach the design of pocket-sized electronics.Apple's team enforced many rules: No vents or pipes could be reflected in the glass. Guidelines for the special wood used frequently throughout the building ran to some 30 pages.Tolerances, the distance materials may deviate from desired measurements, were a particular focus - even for hidden surfaces. The company's keen design sense enhanced the project, but its expectations sometimes clashed with construction realities, a former architect said."With phones, you can build to very, very minute tolerances," he said. "You would never design to that level of tolerance on a building. Your doors would jam."Apple's novel approach to the building took many forms.Architect German de la Torre, who worked on the project, found many of the proportions - such as the curve of a rounded corner - came from Apple's products.The elevator buttons struck some workers as resembling the iPhone's home button; one former manager even likened the toilet's sleek design to the device.But de la Torre ultimately saw that Apple executives were not trying to evoke the iPhone per se, but rather following something akin to the Platonic ideal of form and dimension."They have arrived at design principles somehow through many years of experimentation, and they are faithful to those principles," de la Torre said.Fanatical attention to detail is a key tenet. Early in construction, Apple managers told the construction team that the ceiling - composed of large panels of polished concrete - should be immaculate inside and out, just as the inside of the iPhone's audio jack is a finished product.Thus, each of the thousands of ceiling panels had to win approval from both Apple's in-house construction team and the general contractor, once at the shop and then again at the construction site."The things you can't see, they all mattered to Apple," the former construction manager said.One of the most vexing features was the doorways, which Apple wanted to be perfectly flat, with no threshold.The rationale? If engineers had to adjust their gait while entering the building, they risked distraction from their work.When Apple tapped contractors to finish the building in 2015, one of the first orders of business was finalising a door handle for conference rooms and offices.After months of back and forth, construction workers presented their work to a manager from Apple's in-house team, who turned the sample over and over in his hands. Finally, he said he felt a faint bump.The construction team double-checked the measurements, unable to find any imperfections - down to the nanometre.Still, Apple insisted on another version. The construction manager who was so intimately involved in the door handle did not see its completion. Down to his last day, Apple was still fiddling with the design - after a year-and-a-half of debate.When construction wraps, the only fingerprints on the site will be Jobs's. Workers often had to wear gloves to avoid marring the delicate materials.