Security for this year's opening of parliament is the tightest since Nelson Mandela became president.President Jacob Zuma announced on Tuesday night that he had ordered the deployment of 441 soldiers.The troops - from 1 SA Infantry Battalion, based in Oudtshoorn - are to support the police deployment for Zuma's State of the Nation speech. Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete is reported as having given the assurance that the soldiers would not be allowed into the parliamentary precinct but would patrol the vicinity. The 1 SA Infantry is a mechanised battalion with members trained in the use of heavy armoured vehicles.The troops will not act as part of a ceremonial guard.The defence force deployment at parliament has more than tripled since 2013. In 2013, 168 soldiers were deployed. There were 188 in 2015. Last year's number is not known.Twenty Gauteng motorcycle traffic police have been flown in to help the soldiers and local police.DA Gauteng leader John Moodey said the traffic police had alerted him to their deployment yesterday. "They flew from OR Tambo International Airport [yesterday]. Their bikes were taken by truck on Monday."News24 has reported that the ramped-up security is being justified by intelligence agencies' concerns about plans to disrupt Zuma's speech. This could not be independently confirmed.Outside parliament, on the Grand Parade, more than 10,000 ANC and SA Unintegrated Forces United Front supporters will gather in support of and against Zuma respectively.The US embassy yesterday urged American citizens to avoid the area around parliament. The deployments, which have sparked outrage among the public, opposition political parties, civil society, policing and military unions, and ANC heavyweights, were ordered as the police and military went into damage-control overdrive.Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, speaking to the SABC, said the soldiers would be used only in the event of a "calamity". There was no "abuse of state power".She said the troops were deployed at the request of Police Minister Nathi Nhleko after a security- threat assessment.Police spokesman Vish Naidoo said the deployment of soldiers was not "an extraordinary measure".Naidoo said all law-enforcement agencies would operate within the law and with maximum restraint.SA Police Union president Mpho Kwinika slammed the deployment. He said there were more than 10,000 police recruits newly trained in crowd control."That's 10,000 highly qualified people. Why not use them if you feel those already deployed will be overwhelmed?"He said that also deployed were special task force officers, including snipers."They are already on the roofs of buildings in and around parliament."He said questions needed to be asked about what threats warranted the soldiers' deployment.DA MP Kobus Marais said his party would demand an explanation for the deployment.Businessman Sipho Pityana, addressing the "Real State of the Nation Address" rally organised by the Save South Africa campaign at St George's Cathedral, near parliament, said: "We have to stop the Zuma nightmare. He has broken his contractual relationship with us as citizens." ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu reacted strongly, saying: "We will be opposed to the military being sent to parliament."DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said he had been assured by Mbete that soldiers would not be allowed into the parliamentary precinct."They said they didn't request the military. It's something the president has done. They don't know why the president has deployed so many."EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said the deployment was designed to "intimidate us and it's unconstitutional''."He wants us to be intimidated and go to parliament with guns on our heads."