The popular musician found herself trending over the weekend after some haters accused her of still talking about her relationship with AKA because she was bitter and not yet over the heartbreak.They were touched by Zinhle's comments about getting over her romance with AKA and wanting to have more kids in the future.Zinhle was tired of the insults being hurdled at her and took to Twitter to set a few things straight.Yes, I do want more kids. Loads! #djzinhlecolours (@DJZinhle) February 25, 2017I will always share my story because it helps women &amp; not because I'm not over it. I am definitely over it but it's a powerful story.. #djzinhlecolours (@DJZinhle) February 25, 2017Yes, I do want more kids. Loads! I will always share my story because it helps women &amp; not because I'm not over it. I am definitely over it but it's a powerful story..She told one fan that she was trending because "people use valuable energy on things that contribute nothing to their lives" and joked that next time she is asked about her life, she will just play dumb.Next time someone asks me about my life, imma say "it wasn't me, I wasn't there, I'm sorry" Gerrara here... #djzinhlecolours (@DJZinhle) February 25, 2017She ended by telling her haters that they were so unhappy because they were always spreading negativity on social media.Next time someone asks me about my life, imma say "it wasn't me, I wasn't there, I'm sorry" Gerrara here... Some of y'all spent too much time spreading negativity on twitter but are surprised at how unhappy you are in your lives. #djzinhlecolours (@DJZinhle) February 25, 2017If u want love, spread love, if u want happiness, be happy for others. Focus on my weakness &amp; let's see how far that gets you. Blazzzin' #djzinhlecolours (@DJZinhle) February 25, 2017Some of y'all spent too much time spreading negativity on twitter but are surprised at how unhappy you are in your lives.If u want love, spread love, if u want happiness, be happy for others. Focus on my weakness &amp; let's see how far that gets you. Blazzzin' Kill 'em with kindness, Zinhle!