At the centre of dispute is the department s decision to close down Enduduzweni Skills Centre and send the inhabitants home pending the renovations of the place.However the 37 beneficiaries currently living in the centre have refused to budge literally telling Thusi to go jump.One of the beneficiaries Themba Shiba a visually-impaired man in his 70s has lived at Enduduzweni for over 20 years.A department of public works report released in December condemned the place saying it was in a bad condition for human occupation especially people with disabilities.The centre had been used as a skills centre for people with disabilities especially those visually impaired.This resulted in the department of social development issuing eviction notices to the occupants.However the move has been met with hostility and mistrust by the occupants who believe the department was evicting them for good. The department has not negotiated in good faith with us over the status of this centre said Shiba whose son Sizwe is the chairperson of the occupants forum. The MEC has failed to take us into confidence but has been heard on radio saying she has been talking to us. This is pure lies and we want the MEC to tell the truth said Shiba after they prevented Thusi and the police from accessing the centre on Monday.Sizwe said they cannot just up and go not knowing where they are being moved to. He said another centre was closed down in Lovu pending renovation six years ago and its occupants had still not been returned.The department said it had sent letters advising the beneficiaries that the closure was a temporary measure aimed at refurbishing the place to human occupation standards.The Enduduzweni occupants locked the gate preventing Thusi from entering.Attempts by the police to defuse the situation failed.The occupants of the centre demanded that a meeting be held between them and Thusi at the neighbouring place of safety a request she acceded to.Once in a meeting with Thusi tensions flared and the MEC was unable to placate the angry beneficiaries. Thusi was insisting that they vacate the place with immediate effect saying no one was going back to Enduduzweni. There are fears that your stipends will be stopped that is not true. We advised your families about this development and asked that you all go back home. The government cannot be held responsible for whatever happens to you should you go back there. I have a responsibility to ensure your safety said Thusi.The beneficiaries come from various areas - 14 from Ulundi three from Pietermaritzburg two from uThukela 17 from eThekwini and one from Gauteng - and the department s efforts to meet with them over the festive season failed.Before the Christmas holidays they had been advised not to return to Enduduzweni but they came back on January 6.The impasse was resolved late on Monday when the department decided to book the beneficiaries into a hotel. We are closing today they can t go back there said Thusi s spokesman late on Monday.- TMG Digital/TimesLIVE