Here are all the stories that grabbed South Africans' attention this week:1. Patricia de Lille resigns as DA's Western Cape leader: De Lille's move is effective from February but she will stay on as Cape Town mayor. She said she wanted to focus on her goals as Cape Town mayor and implement a transformation plan to "modernise and reform the government to improve service delivery".2. Top prosecutor Gerrie Nel resigns from National Prosecuting Authority (NPA):Nel cited "other interests" when he gave notice to the NPA. He has joined AfriForum as head of its newly formed prosecuting unit. Black Twitter was furious about his move, stating how black South Africans had lost faith in him as he would no longer be contributing to justice but rather to white monopoly capitalism. Nel worked as a junior prosecutor in the cases of former apartheid-era MP Clive Derby-Lewis and Polish migrant Janusz Walus who were jailed for the assassination of Chris Hani.3. Health ombud lashes government over unlawful deaths of 94 mentally ill patients:A total of 94 mentally ill patients died when they were moved from licensed Life Esidimeni private homes to 27 unlicensed facilities. The health ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba on Wednesday found that the Department of Health was negligent when it moved 1 900 patients from Life healthcare.4. Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu resigns:She resigned on Wednesday, saying she had a 20-year unblemished record in public service and adding it was because of her actions that an inquiry was initiated into the deaths of the 94 mentally ill patients in state care.5. 'Bluetooth' shock: Nyaope drug addicts share blood to get high:Nyaope addicts are drawing blood from their drugged friends and then injecting themselves. "When I do not have anything and my friend has a hit he injects himself and then I draw his blood and inject it in myself to get my high," one addict told TimesLIVE.6. Beyonc and hubby Jay Z are expecting twins:The star hinted on Instagram at carrying twins, sharing that she and Jay Z had been "blessed two times over" and that their family would be "growing by two".7. Lily Mine tragedy:The bodies of three miners at Lily Mine near Barberton remain missing a year after they were trapped underground. TimesLIVE previously spoke to Shadrack Given Mdluli, who was mourning his late wife Yvonne Mnisi, one of the three people who died at the Vantage Goldfields mine on February 5 last year.