According to mayor Solly Msimanga motorists who could not be issued with their vehicle licences due to outstanding fines would approach a licensing department official for a way out.Speaking to journalists in Pretoria on Monday he explained that the official would then initiate a process of registering the vehicle in the name of a supposed new owner business or estate. The registration would then be backdated to fall under the unsuspecting new owner s name. The vehicle would then be registered back under the original owner s name minus the fines. What would normally then happen after this the unsuspecting person business or estate on whose name the fines have been dumped would then approach the licensing department to query the transaction. The officials would then say they did not know what happened and simply wipe off the fines. That is how the city has been losing on traffic fines and licensing revenues he said.Msimanga said 105 officials fingered in the fraudulent practice believed to be part of a syndicate operating across Gauteng were from all the city's licensing stations.He said internal disciplinary processes have already been initiated against 12 of these officials. This number may grow as we probe further into this practice that went largely unchecked under the previous ANC administration he said.He said this fraudulent scheme meant that the metro was unable to recoup some of the money owed to it which further compounded its ability to generate the revenue it needed to provide services to law-abiding citizens entitled to services.This comes on the heels of the metro's announcement last week about just how precarious its financial situation is.Msimanga has since instructed that all officials implicated in this collusion be suspended and dealt with swiftly so that they can start recovering some of these monies which he said would go a long way toward generating the much-needed revenue. In doing so we will also swiftly root out this corruption from our traffic sector. This coupled with the roll-out of parking meters will ensure that we leverage the tools and instruments available to us in the traffic sector to generate revenue enforce by-laws and create a more efficient and sustainable traffic sector in this city he said.Msimanga said the practice had been playing itself out for several years. He added that though the amount that had been lost had yet to be ascertained it could easily run into millions of rand.He said they were still looking into how these funds could be recovered from the officials once they had been found guilty as well as from members of the public who benefited from the novel fraudulent scheme. Licensing fraud and corruption become very very technical since most of it is system-based (e-Natis). I will therefore be appointing a dedicated prosecutor and presiding officer to look into these cases he said.Msimanga said during their election campaign they promised that corruption would not be tolerated and that they remained resolute in this promise. We will root out fraud and corruption in all its manifestations he said.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE