Pienaar made the remarks in a powerful eulogy at the memorial service for the former Bulls and Springbok scrumhalf at Loftus Versfeld on Friday.Van der Westhuizen died in a Johannesburg hospital on Monday following a six-year battle against amyotrophic lateral sclerosis a form of motor neuron disease (MND). He was 45.Van der Westhuizen played a pivotal role in that tournament and in the final in particular in which the Boks beat New Zealand 15-12. Joost was a Bull. An unapologetic Blue Bull Pienaar said in Afrikaans. He was one of several brilliant Blue Bulls to pull the jersey over their heads from Lucas Strachan Hannes Brewers Tom von Vollenhoeven Louis and Uli Schmidt Frik du Preez Thys Lourens Johan Heunis and the incredible Naas Botha to name a few. From a Bull he became a Bok a Springbok first a ram and then he became a Springbok bull who the world will always remember. He was a legend on the field with the ever-present smile.junk Joost loved winning loved it. He was an ultra competitor. In the days of amateur rugby Joost had a professional mindset and discipline. Pienaar invoked the words of two poems to describe Van der Westhuizen s value to the team and to rugby in South Africa. But he also remarked on how Van der Westhuizen lived life to the full. To captain him was incredibly easy and incredibly difficult Pienaar said. He always pushed the boundaries. He was an individual spirit that did anything for his teammates. On the field he played like a rock star and off the field he partied like a rock star because after all he was a rock star."He was funny and kinda naughty in that James Dean or should I say James Small kind of way. But he was always smiling. Our 1995 manager Morn du Plessis slipped a note under our doors on Thursday before the final. It was a poem by Theodore Roosevelt. It was indicative of Joost and also apt. It reads: It s not the critic who counts. It s not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles or how the doer of deeds could have done them better.junk The credit belongs to the man in the arena whose face is marred by dust sweat and by blood who tries valiantly and errs again and again because there is no effort without error or shortcomings who knows great devotion and spends himself in a worthy cause; and in the end knows the highs of ultimate achievement; but if he loses whilst daring greatly knows that his place will not be with those cold and timid souls that knew neither victory nor defeat . Pienaar also referenced the poem by renowned Afrikaans poet Jan F Celliers about General De Wet and used some poetic licence to dedicate it to Joost. Joost is now a member of an exclusive club Pienaar said. He became a legend not once but twice in his lifetime. The class of 1995 is saying goodbye to another of its own today. Joost was strikingly handsome and if he here a flower he would be a King Protea. He was rare and wonderful. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport