"The Hawks came after Mdluli was arrested. There was a white man and Indian man. They came on three occasions " Boy Johnson Buthelezi told the South Gauteng High Court on Monday. Judge in Mdluli case shocked at shoddy police work"They said they'd fetch me on Tuesday to undergo a lie detector test in Pretoria because they said I'm not being truthful about General Mdluli " he added"They were forcing me to also say I know Oupa Ramogibe". Witness in Mdluli trial suggests state tampered with evidenceAt the time Mdluli was suspected to have been behind Ramogibe's murder.Ramogibe had married Mdluli's customary wife Tshidi Buthelezi.Several weeks ago Mdluli took to the stand and told the court that he found out at Buthelezi's funeral that she had secretly married Ramogibe."I became aware of the marriage on the day that we buried Tshidi " Mdluli said at the time.She had passed away after an illness.Mdluli denied that he harboured any resentment for his estranged wife and Ramogibe."My anger was on the day where I found Tshidi with Oupa... I never said I was angry throughout. Why would I be angry with someone who chose to no longer be my wife? I said [to her] let us separate and let your parents know that you are no longer with me and I can live a new life. And that is what happened " he said.Buthelezi's father however claimed he never knew Ramogibe."I don't know about that [the marriage]. I don't know him " the 74-year-old told the court.He and Tshidi's mother were separated at the time of Tshidi's death.Ramogibe was killed on February 17 1999 in the company of police as he went with them to point out the scene of where he had been shot several weeks earlier as he was walking in Vosloorus.Police claimed that they had been ambushed at the scene and Ramogibe was shot dead.An inquest cleared Mdluli of any involvement.Mdluli is currently on trial alongside former policeman Mthembeni Mthunzi.The pair face numerous counts of intimidation kidnapping and assault of friends and family of Buthelezi and Ramogibe.They have pleaded not guilty to the charges.Mdluli claimed that this was all part of a ploy to block him from advancing to a police commissioner position.Meanwhile Boy Buthelezi said the Hawks never came back to take him to the lie detector test as they said they would."I called Mdluli [after the Hawks' visit] and he said he would call Ike Motloung who would request that the Hawks send a list of questions that they wanted me to answer during the lie detector test " he said.The list of questions never came.Motloung is representing Mdluli in this matter.The matter continues. 