At least seven streets around the parliamentary precinct will be closed for two days before Thursday s address by President Jacob Zuma according to an internal memorandum from secretary to parliament Gengezi Mgidlana to all staff members.Mgidlana on Thursday briefed the media on parliament s readiness to host this year s address adding that the event would take the same format as in previous years. In terms of our plans and preparations we are quite comfortable. It s all systems go at that level. won t be any glitches in that regard said Mgidlana.Mgidlana denied that there would be extensive security measures this time. It has not really changed in terms of format from we have done in the past in terms of security. The idea of securitisation of parliament is false and doesn t have a foundation said Mgidlana.He added however that the SA National Defence the SAPS and the State Security Agency prepared their own plans and preparations. That s what they normally do in this event. They have a cluster they call JPCS cluster. We also want to highlight that really from our perspective SONA is not about security. Freedom of movement of journalists in parliament? I think journalists in parliament have been guaranteed freedom of movement said Mgidlana.Mgidlana assured journalists that no cellphone signals would be blocked and footage of proceedings won t be cut.Meanwhile the Economic Freedom Fighters have written a letter to the Speaker of the National Assembly Baleka Mbete to demand that instead of giving Zuma an opportunity to address the joint sitting the date must be set aside to debate the failure by parliament to hold Zuma to account.EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said this was despite a clear ruling by the Constitutional Court that he had failed to uphold his oath of office .Ndlozi said the party also wants a debate on the threat to our constitution and democracy of having Mr Zuma continue as President of the Republic of South Africa . It is clear that the Speaker and the entire ANC Caucus are hell-bent on rendering our Constitution useless and ushering of lawlessness in our country which is a serious threat to our democracy said Ndlozi. -TMG Digital/TimesLIVE