Mzansi knew that something was wrong when Riky started out his Best Hit Single winner's speech by saying that he wished he was more excited about winning the award, but that fans who knew his raps would know why he was a little disillusioned by it.Fans of the rapper immediately knew that Riky was referring to the lines of a song he released last year. But in case you didn't know what he was talking about, Riky later took to Twitter to spell it out for fans."If niggaz can pay for these fucking awards then my nigga I dont want them..." - RIKY RICK 2016 #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) February 25, 2017"If niggaz can pay for these fucking awards then my nigga I dont want them..." - RIKY RICK 2016Riky then took a swipe at the music and radio industries saying that 90 percent of the music on radio was "garbage" and encouraged young artists who were being blocked by radio to push their music on the internet instead.Watch it below at the 2:26:00 mark Riky was just getting started when his mic was cut, leaving him confused and angry.TV audiences watched as he later addressed the issue in an interview backstage, telling audiences that he had a lot on his chest and that it was time for the powers that be to stop playing with the people because they were "not stupid".He later took his message to Twitter.STOP PLAYING WITH THE PEOPLE... WE NOT STUPID... #STAYSHINING (@rikyrickworld) February 25, 2017STOP PLAYING WITH THE PEOPLE... WE NOT STUPID...Twitter was never ready and flooded the service with messages supporting Riky- making the rapper the most talked about topic in Mzansi.#MMA16 Ricky Rick just put this award show on blast. He wasn't even happy about it either. Thanks for standing up for the young artists. Thandi Zote (@ThandiZote7) February 25, 2017Rare pic of Ricky Rick leaving the stage after his speech#MMA16 pic.twitter.com/NtwQ2rSmyH God's Advocate. (@IamCos_ZA) February 25, 2017Ricky Rick 's gf is proud of him after what he did at the metro fm awards and also us fans we proud of Riky pic.twitter.com/RWRRyPgXSB yakwa Saki (@iamkuhlesaki) February 26, 2017#MMA16 Ricky Rick just put this award show on blast. He wasn't even happy about it either. Thanks for standing up for the young artists.Rare pic of Ricky Rick leaving the stage after his speech#MMA16 pic.twitter.com/NtwQ2rSmyHRicky Rick 's gf is proud of him after what he did at the metro fm awards and also us fans we proud of Riky pic.twitter.com/RWRRyPgXSBViva Ricky Rick Viva Dawg #mma16