Infantino is in Johannesburg to attend an unprecedented football summit starting on Tuesday to which he has invited all 54 presidents of Africa s soccer associations.Infantino made a brief statement at Safa House but would not answer questions. Let me just say that it s a great pleasure for me to be here in South Africa today and in Johannesburg for this football summit which we have organised for the first time in Fifa s history Infantino said. We have representatives here from Europe from Asia and of course from Africa. And the meeting starts very soon. I wanted to drop by here with Safa president Danny Jordaan to visit the Safa headquarters which are really beautiful outstanding. I think they [the headquarters] are an example not only for South Africa or the region or Africa but really for the whole world for the legacy of what can be done. This together with the [Safa s national] technical centre which is in an advanced projected phase will surely bring South African football and football within the region to a different level. So I m very grateful and can only commend and congratulate Safa for all of this. It s impressive. The purpose of the two-day summit is reportedly for Infantino to explain changes to football including the expanded 48-team World Cup from 2026.Africa is hoping to have its participation expanded under the new format from five teams to as many as nine.Infantino is scheduled to leave on Thursday for Harare to attend the birthday party of Zimbabwean FA president Phillip Chiyangwa.Chinyangwa recently elected president of Cosafa (the Council of Southern Africa Football Associations) is also campaign manager for former Madagascar government minister Ahmad in his bid to unseat long-time Caf president Issa Hayatou in March 16 elections.Hayatou who has been president for 29 years reportedly suspects the birthday party of being a front to campaign for the Ahmad.Safa CEO Dennis Mumble said it was not for the association to comment on Infantino s trip to Zimbabwe. This is something for Fifa. This is a Fifa visit to another country one of it s members and they are still in good standing Mumble said. So it s really not for Safa to say anything about it. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport