Answering questions posed by Justice Ratha Mokgoatlheng Mdluli said Major-General Tebello Mosikili whom he reported to would have known about this project known as Ulimbambe lingashoni loosely translated to Don t let the sun set on you .During the proceedings a relaxed Mdluli sat comfortably in the dock slightly slouched with one hand in the pocket of his trousers. These false charges were formulated and the witnesses were canvassed and found and put in witness protection programmes in order for them to be coached to testify falsely against you? asked Mokgoatlheng. Mdluli agreed.He said a team of investigators at least two Hawks officials and private investigator Paul O Sullivan had been part of the investigation."Paul O Sullivan was part and parcel of the police who said that before March 4 I would be arrested said Mdluli. O Sullivan was part of Agang and after my arrest he pulled out and Mamphele Ramphele then formed a political party he explained.Mdluli is currently on trial alongside former policeman Mthembeni Mthunzi.The pair face numerous counts of intimidation kidnapping and assault of friends and family of Tshidi Buthelezi and her lover Oupa Ramogibe.They have also been charged with defeating the ends of justice.Mdluli had paid lobola for Buthelezi who was also the mother of his child.It later emerged however that Buthelezi had had a relationship with Ramogibe and they later entered into a civil union. I became aware of the marriage on the day that we buried Tshidi said Mdluli.Meanwhile Ramogibe was shot dead on February 17 1999. This was just shortly after reporting to police that he had received death threats.Mdluli who was initially a suspect in Ramogibe's murder was cleared.During the trial however friends and family of both Buthelezi spoke of how Mdluli had kidnapped assaulted and intimidated Ramogibe.At the time of the murder Mdluli had been the head of the Vosloorus police station on the East Rand.He denied that he harboured any resentment for Buthelezi and Ramogibe. My anger was on the day where I found Tshidi with Oupa " he said referring to an incident where he had driven to Orange Farm with Mthunzi and Buthelezi's friend to fetch Buthelezi.She and Ramogibe had reportedly fled to his relatives in Orange Farm.Mdluli claimed that Buthelezi willingly came home with him while Ramogibe asked for a lift back to the East Rand.Ramogibe drove back with Mthunzi while Buthelezi had driven back with Mdluli the court heard."I never said I was angry throughout. Why would I be angry with someone who chose to no longer be my wife? I said [to her] let us separate and let your parents know that you are no longer with me and I can live a new life. And that is what happened he said.Witnesses have testified however that Ramogibe had been forcefully taken from his relatives and was assaulted.Under cross-examination by prosecutor Willem van Zyl Mdluli denied this.He claims all the testimony and evidence brought against him was a plot to block him from being promoted.A new witness takes the stand on Friday.