ANC parliamentary spokesman Nonceba Mhlauli told Jacaranda FM that the Office of the Speaker still had to confirm a date and time for the swearing-in ceremony.The ANC caucus also had to decide which committee Molefe would serve on. Brian Molefe an ANC branch member in Irene - and Hartebeesport? So where's his home?"As the ANC caucus Comrade Molefe will only be deployed in a committee once he is sworn in. The caucus leadership and Molefe will sit down and decide which committee he will be best suited to serve on. ANC in Parliament does not issue statements regarding the swearing in of MP's" Mhlauli said.Amid speculation that Molefe will soon be moved into a cabinet position Mhlauli also confirmed ANC MP Dr Makhosi Khoza has been moved from the standing committee on finance to the public service and administration committee.Meanwhile the ANC s branch 29 in Hartbeespoort Dam has produced documents to show that Molefe is a member of the branch.This comes after ANC Tshwane secretary Paul Mojapelo confirmed to Business Day on Tuesday that Molefe was a member in good standing of the Irene branch.Some members of the Hartbeespoort Dam branch which falls under the Madibeng Municipality in North West had claimed that Molefe was not a member of the branch and that the decision to appopint him as an MP for the area had been forced on the structure.However the North West ANC Youth League s Papi Ratele stressed on Tuesday that Molefe was indeed a member of ward 29 in Madibeng. ANC shifts top MP from finance committee We as the ANC youth league support the branch of ward 29 in Madibeng for them to say comrade Brian Molefe is a legitimate member of the NC in this branch. Therefore according to the Constitution of the ANC each and every person who has six months or more in participating fully as a member of the ANC can be elected or elect to participate in the ANC. Therefore by virtue of exceeding the six months he is therefore a legitimate member. We support the notion that Brian Molefe must go and serve in national Parliament. He is one of our own he resides in Madibeng North West and he is a member of the ANC said Ratele.Added John Tshawe the ANC s sub regional chairperson in Madibeng: We are in full support of ward 29 and what is happening in Madibeng. We have noticed with dismay and disappointment to have people talking on our behalf. We see Brian Molefe making good en route in our sub-region and putting Bokoni Bophirima (North West) on the map. 