It was a finely-crafted free-kick into the top-right corner that opened the scoring for Chiefs against Free State Stars at FNB Stadium on Wednesday night and set up a 3-1 win for an increasingly confident Amakhosi back from the six-week Premier League break.That made it three wins in a row and Chiefs even have the opportunity to grab the lead of the PSL this weekend should they beat Maritzburg United at Harry Gwala Stadium on Saturday night (8.15pm) and Cape Town City be held to a draw by Ajax Cape Town at the same time.With the experience of 2010 World Cup squad generation leaders in their team of Tshabalala Itumeleng Khune and Bernard Parker it s not inconceivable that Steve Komphela s Amakhosi much maligned for the early part of the season could even win the PSL this season.Tshabalala or Shabba scorer of that World Cup opening goal against Mexico in 2010 largely carried Chiefs attack in the first half of the season. In his younger day something of a tearaway destructive winger now he roams sometimes starting on his preferred left others on the right to drift inside others at attacking midfielder or even deeper. Football nowadays is not about talent only. It s about brains and hard work as well that completes a player said the 32-year-old who amassed 90 caps for Bafana Bafana and was instrumental in Chiefs doubles under Stuart Baxter in 2012-13 and 2014-15. Against Stars I started as an attacking midfielder and I was switched to the left-hand side. I dropped deep to manage the game. I m happy that I can play more than three or four positions. It s about timing and experience as to how to manage the game when to run with the ball when to slow down and when to use your speed as well. Tshabalala s 2010 Bafana teammate Parker also got on the scoresheet against Stars sweeping in the rebound after seeing his penalty saved by goalkeeper Thela Ngobeni for his third strike in as many games. If Chiefs are to maintain their challenge this season their veterans will lead the way. It s good for us. It s good for the team. We have a lot of youngsters in the team Tshabalala said. They look up to us and we have to lead by example and through performance too. And I trust that we do inspire them when we help the team win. We had a great camp in Potchefstroom during the PSL break where we worked very hard and I think we prepared very well. And we are all in the right frame of mind. In the first game back I think we did very well in fitness. In keeping the ball and scoring goals we can still do better. It s always tough playing Maritzburg at Harry Gwala Stadium. They always bring their A game there. But it s a challenge that we re up for in terms of trying to reach consistency and continuing with our winning run. Chiefs have their star winger and main source of goals in 2016-17 George Lebese back from a back injury for their trip to Pietermariztburg.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport