But coach Robbie Fleck wouldn t reveal the name of his skipper on Monday saying that the rest of the squad had not been informed of the decision yet. It was telling though that the coach was flanked by decorated Bok lock Eben Etzebeth and Bok flank Siya Kolisi.Clearly one of the two will be captain and the other vice-captain. I did the co-captains last year because we had a young group Fleck said in reference to Juan de Jongh and Frans Malherbe who did the job last year. But chatting to senior players there was a feeling that we need one figurehead and a vice captain and we have a leadership group consists of seven guys. It was a difficult process to settle on one captain but a good one to go through because there are some good leaders coming through. Kolisi is the favourite to captain the side with Etzebeth providing support as his sergeant major to provide the tough love when needed. The Stormers take on the Bulls in their Super Rugby opener at Newlands this weekend and there is an air of confidence in the camp after a good pre-season that yielded three wins against the Cheetahs SWD Eagles and Lions.Often results in pre-season games are dismissed but Kolisi was adamant that there was something to be gained from a positive scoreboard. Winning pre-season games does create a winning culture which is the most important thing Kolisi said. It gives the younger players a winning feeling and builds confidence. It s much easier for young players to come into a side that has been winning. The Stormers have focused on better fitness and skills but within that they have also placed an emphasis on their breakdown work and having more players on their feet at all times during the game. With five matches against New Zealand teams in 2017 the Stormers have to have more men on their feet to compete with the high tempo style of NZ teams. The way that we trained in the off-season is starting to come through Fleck said. We have to take the opposition into account even if we want to play smart running rugby. We have used John Dobson as a specialist breakdown coach and I feel it s gone well in the pre-season."But the Kiwi sides are further ahead because they are winning clean ball with more numbers on their feet. They make better decisions at the breakdown and slow it down more effectively than SA teams. Defensively you want 14 men on their feet and on attack you need as many as possible."That has never changed in rugby but we tended to lose sight of it. - TMG Digital