Earlier in the rubber Andile Phehlukwayo and Dwaine Pretorius stepped up with middle order performances to back up their bowling.Wayne Parnell joined the gang on Saturday scoring 35 and sharing a seventh-wicket stand of 84 with AB de Villiers before taking 2/33 from eight overs. We ve seen that whoever has come in has done what s required Parnell told reporters in Wellington. It s about replicating that game-by-game. You don t always get it right - I got a duck in the last game but those things happen. It s about trying to contribute. Parnell duly did on Saturday but the competition for places in South Africa s team means he is not assured of playing in the next match of the series in Hamilton on Wednesday.Fast bowlers Chris Morris and Dane Paterson did not play Saturday s game along with left-arm wrist spinner Tabraiz Shamsi. If I sit out the next game and a new guy comes I m sure he ll do well Parnell said. It s also about getting combinations for certain conditions so if we have five or six guys bowling well we can rotate depending on if you need a second spinner or an extra fast bowler. We can chop and change without affecting the quality of the bowling line-up. That plan worked well on Saturday when South Africa totalled 271/8 and snuffed out New Zealand s reply in 32.2 overs for only 112. The first 15 overs with the ball were key for us Parnell said. We got a couple of wickets and also managed to keep the run-rate down. Then Dwaine and Andile were exceptional picking up wickets and keeping it very tight. If you can have periods of that sustained pressure any batting line-up can fold quickly. Pretorius claimed career-best figures of 3/5 and Phehlukwayo took 2/12.They ripped the heart out of New Zealand s batting by dismissing Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor in the throes of a slide of four wickets for 10 runs in the space of 28 deliveries.The first match of the series was also played in Hamilton where South Africa won by four wickets with a ball to spare.But Parnell didn t take that as a promise of success on Wednesday. I don t think you can read too much into it he said. It will be a different surface; it s zero for zero. We expect New Zealand to bounce back in Hamilton - it will be a completely different match. TMG Digital/TMG Sport 