The "sharing economy" trailblazer grew incredibly fast. Today, through its website and app, travellers can book a room any time, anywhere in the world, making Airbnb a form of global hotel chain, despite the fact that it owns as many beds as Uber owns taxis. It acts as a broker, receiving commissions from both guests and hosts with every booking.According to Wikipedia, Airbnb now has more than three million lodging listings in 65,000 cities in 191 countries.But, as Juan Labuschagne of Johannesburg discovered, some Airbnb hosts' responses to criticism could use a little work.He recently booked a room in an apartment in Florence, Italy, having not been warned about any problems. And so, being required by Airbnb to review his host, he wrote: "Great little spot. The air conditioning doesn't work, making the apartment very cold; the shower is not any good (it floods and the hot water runs out real quickly) and the noise from the entrance hall pierces right through the walls."To which "Frederica" responded, in Italian translated into curious English, by saying it was his lack of "respect" that caused the "rupture" of the shower and the heating, and demanding R5,780 ( 400) in "damages" for sullying the reputation of her establishment, and to repair the facilities.Labuschagne then found a review posted by someone who stayed in the apartment just before him. He too, having praised the location and "friendly hosts", said the apartment was very cold, and the shower leaked.Frederica responded by claiming that he'd broken an expensive cooking pan, so there appears to be a bit of a pattern with this Airbnb host.Labuschagne e-mailed a complaint to Airbnb's customer service team, and got this response: "After reviewing the relevant documentation and communication, we've decided not to proceed with your host's request. That means you won't need to make a payment, and your host's claim has been denied."Labuschagne said: "It was a bad experience overall and one that undermines the review system of Airbnb and my faith in it. I've requested a refund on my stay given the lack of hot water and heating in the room - Florence was 4 at night."But Airbnb has not yet responded to his refund request.He also asked: "How will my concerns about the vindictive nature of the host's request be dealt with? In particular, has it been made clear to the host that she cannot ask for money because of bad reviews?"All Airbnb would say in response was: "We understand that you would like to know more, but it is our policy not to disclose the information on the procedures we use, and what penalties or proceedings are applied towards the parties that breach the terms or contracts."That Frederica is currently demanding money from former guests who post negative reviews, when she has had her accommodation listed with Airbnb since 2014, is concerning.On February 19 I sent an e-mail to Airbnb's media address, asking for the company's view on how that Florence host had responded to what appeared to be fair criticism, whether it issued guidelines to its hosts on how to - or not to - deal with less than rave reviews, and how it responded to requests for refunds.I've had no response.Attorney Verlie Oosthuizen, a social media law specialist with Shepstone &amp; Wylie in Umhlanga, said provided a comment made about an establishment on a public platform was true and to the public benefit, a claim of defamation would not succeed."In any event, that Italian woman would have a jurisdiction problem, given that the review in question was written by someone who lives in South Africa," she said. "I often have South African business owners contacting me, wanting to sue someone who said something negative about them on social media."I always tell them it's not worth it - litigating is a hugely expensive process, and besides, we'd only be in court in two years' time. I suggest that they rather focus on creating an experience for their customers which will lead to rave reviews, outnumbering the few negative ones."There will always be bad reviews; threatening to sue those who write them is definitely not the way to go," Oosthuizen said.CONTACT WENDY Email: consumer@knowler.co.za Twitter: @wendyknowlerSHELFIE OH BOY: Two kids, intrigued by the fact that the sweet/toys are gender specific, bought a couple of Kinder Joys. The boy with the 'For Girls' one finished constructing his toy a lot quicker than his brother. 'The girls' one is a lot simpler,' he said. 'Two pieces versus six.' So girls, if you want the more challenging toy, buy the For Boys version. Sad, but true