Mischievously fans on social media have given this clash of titans at Loftus Versfeld the title Star Wars as it pits the only two South African clubs with a star over their badge for winning the Caf Champions League against each other.But the meeting of current African champions Sundowns and those of 1995 Pirates holds more at stake for Bucs.A 0-0 draw against Platinum Stars in Rustenburg on Wednesday returning from the PSL s six-week recess does not encourage their supporters that the club have recovered from the bombshell early-season meltdown of coach Muhsin Ertugral yet under his successor caretaker August Palacios.Bucs long-time development head and often caretaker in a crisis has only managed to steer the Soweto giants to 10th place after 14 games. Pirates risk reaching the 15-game halfway mark surely out of contention for the PSL title should they lose at Loftus.Palacios believes he has at least rectified some of the defensive problems that have seen the Buccaneers concede 17 goals in their 14 matches far too many for a team aiming to challenge for the league.After a largely toothless return to action against Stars now the coach says he s focusing on goal-scoring. From my experience if you cannot convert your chances when they come your way forget about the rest. Sorry Palacios said. This is football. Chiefs converted their chances [in their 3-1 win against Free State Stars on Tuesday night]. Against Stars my players put the effort. We changed a few things we never conceded the defence was perfect. But what was missing? The finishing. Palacios promised to make changes from his line-up and approach against Stars on Saturday. Sundowns are not an easy team. They are a team who play ball possession with Percy Tau Anthony Laffor Khama Billiat they have very good combinations the coach said. We have the defence to control that. Before maybe I was worried more about the defence but now I need to worry about the scoring. If the players who are there are not scoring you need to have another option. Because remember I don t blame anyone. And you build. You also have to have players who are hungry to play. Bucs coach might be tempted to introduce some of his new signings such as left-back Marc van Heerden forward Dove Wome or the big Nigerian centreback James Okwuosa who have not seen action yet.Sundowns have catching up to do after their Champions League heroics and participation at the Club World Cup.Pitso Mosimane s winning machine started well back from a hugely needed break with a 1-0 win away against Bloemfontein Celtic on Wednesday night and are at a menacing 22 points from 10 games in fifth place after seven wins and just two defeats.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport