A media conference held at Luthuli House was marred by disruptions from MK members. Leading the news conference former general Siphiwe Nyanda read a statement in which he said a joint MKMVA conference was to be established to unite all MK members.Nyanda said both parties were unanimous about their responsibility to preserve the legacy of the ANC following a meeting they held last week. In this regard some of the statements previously attributed to the leadership of the MKMVA were considered regrettable said Nyanda.He was referring to a statement in which MKMVA chairperson Kenny Maphatsoe described some ANC veterans as empty tins .Nyanda said all the former MK members had agreed to play their part in discouraging factionalism. Following the above observation by both parties we unanimously agreed on the importance to strengthen our ranks as former combatants and agreed to henceforth work together through a common platform to address the challenges within MKMVA and the ANC in general said Nyanda.He said a joint MKMVA conference preparatory team would be established to unite former MK members.But as Nyanda and Maphatsoe answered questions on how this would be done an MK member arose from among the crowd of journalists and said this would never work. Chair there is no special MK cadres here the man shouted from his seat. We fought for where we are. We have houses today because of you guys. We are working because of you guys. Comrade Kebby and Comrade Gebueze and Comrade Shabangu they never did anything for us. So today they are now telling us of a special conference. There will be no special conference the man shouted throwing his hands in the air. There will be no special conference he added.The man then stormed out of the press room at Luthuli House.Earlier in the conference another former MK had interrupted Nyanda and demanded that he account for the abduction and murder of Nokuthula Simelane.The activist who was a messenger for the MK reportedly fell into a trap set by one of her own and was allegedly abducted and brutally tortured by the Security Branch of the former South African Police.She was never seen again.Nyanda claimed to have never worked alongside Simelane. I didn t even know that she was participating in the struggle in our missionary. Some people were working with her so I had absolutely nothing to do with her Nyanda said.Asked by reporters whether he thought people had been planted to disrupt the proceedings Nyanda said he would leave it up to the media to decide. I think you can [make out] what is happening yourselves Nyanda said. I am not going to comment. You are adults and you can see for yourselves what is happening he added.He said the steering committee was simply trying to address issues of the ANC the ANC veterans league and the MKMVA.Despite the revolt by members Nyanda said they would not be discouraged from uniting the veterans.