In fact even as Downs prepare to meet TP Mazembe in the 2017 Caf Super Cup at Lostus Versfeld on Saturday further complicating their already manic schedule Mosimane pronounced that he thinks the Brazilians will defend their PSL title.Sundowns winners of the 2016 Caf Champions League (ACL) meet Democratic of Republic giants healthy rivals and the 2016 Confederation Cup winners Mazembe on Saturday evening with Downs having home advantage as winners of the more prestigious competition.Mosimane believes the match can be a springboard to Downs beginning the defence of their ACL title where they play their home and away first round fixtures next month.He said Downs priority in 2017 is again continental football. If you want to play in the Club World Cup the Super Cup you want to be team of the year in Africa it depends what do you want? Mosimane asked. You can be team of the year in South Africa. But you can be that and someone is winning the Champions League outside you can t be African team of the year then. You re going to lose that title. Downs international priority means that for Mosimane building a team capable of conquering Africa has also given him a side that with a few tweaks and some rotation of a super-squad can come home and earn big results too. Saturday s 6-0 thrashing of Orlando Pirates at Loftus was a case in point.Though the coach does admit to some frustration that he sometimes has to drop points through a rotation policy. Let s be honest it costs me points he said. You know me I want to make one change or two. I like to go with the same team. But when I have to make nine changes I drop two points. I went to Maritzburg [for a 0-0 PSL draw in September] before going to Zesco [for the ACL semifinal in Zambia] we made nine changes and dropped two points. And my focus is not local football it s international football. If my focus was local I would play a weakened team in the Champions League. I play a strong team in the Champions League and then weakened local. And I still have to win the league and it s pressure. But one point at Chippa United [in a 1-1 draw on Tuesday night] let s be honest it s not bad huh? How many teams are going to go there and win? So we have time. The league is a marathon. We know how to do it. If I think if at any time we have to prioritise o the league I will. It s very important. And I think we ll win the league. Sundowns are in a menacing fifth place in the PSL on 25 points from 12 games just five points behind leaders Bidvest Wits having played three less matches.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport