Although Van der Westhuizen only ever played for the Blue Bulls and Bulls his style of play and obvious talent transcended petty provincialism and global rivalries.Van der Westhuizen passed away after a long and courageous struggle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) a form of motor neuron disease (MND) for the past six years.Tributes poured in from across the country and the world as former players and opponents friends and administrators tipped their caps to one of the greatest halfbacks to play the game.The Golden Lions Rugby Union (GLRU) expressed their sadness via CEO Rudolf Streauli who played alongside Van der Westhuizen when the Springboks won the 1995 World Cup final. The thoughts of the entire country are with his family Straeuli said. He was a game changer whenever he stepped onto the field. On a personal level I played and coached with Joost and it is a huge loss. His family and close friends are in our thoughts. Johan Ackermann coach of the Lions also conveyed his condolences. I played with Joost from under-20 to Springbok level and will always treasure the moments we shared Ackermann said. He was always an inspiration and fighter on and off the field and one of the best players I ever played with or against. Our prayers are with the family. Sharks CEO Gary Teichmann who played alongside Van der Westhuizen for four years expressed his sadness. Joost was a great team man and was an outstanding ambassador for South African rugby Teichmann said. I will always cherish the memories we shared both on and off the field. Our sincere condolences are extended to the entire Van der Westhuizen family on the loss of a son brother husband and father. The Western Province Rugby Football Union also released a short statement of condolence while players from across the globe took to Twitter to have their say. A great friend has left us with an incredible legacy in rugby former England scrumhalf Matt Dawson tweeted. Joost inspired on and off the field. Rest easy blue eyes ... Former Ireland and British &amp; Irish Lions captain Brian O Driscoll said: RIP Joost van der Westhuizen. An incredible player and fighter to the end. The first of the new age 9s. England s combative former hooker Brian Moore not known for his soft side heaped praise on the Bok great. This is so sad he tweeted. I played against the great man and he was outstanding. RIP after your long struggle my friend. England s World Cup-winning lock Ben Kay was also effusive in his praise: Few become a hero twice in your lifetime like Joost did. A sparkling eyed warrior who left his greatest performance 'til last. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport