The man's youngest victim was just a year old and still in nappies when he first violated her. The man may not be named as it could identify one of his victims.Besides his penis a vibrator and thermometer he also used one of his victims' own dinosaur toys to penetrate her.The 40-year-old car salesman from Gauteng has pleaded guilty to all of his crimes.Dressed in a black t-shirt his dark black hair combed back he was a grim sight as he pleaded guilty to each of his 870 charges before Judge Cassim Moosa. Guilty my Lord he said after Moosa read out of each of the charges.His reign of terror came to an abrupt end when law enforcement officials in the United State tracked him down to South Africa.He had shared dozens of self-produced videos on a website where other paedophiles exchanged videos of their acts.He never stopped his reign of terror because of guilt but because he was afraid he would get caught. In an affidavit of his read before the court he said he stopped raping and sexually molesting the infant when she began talking too much .The man had been in a relationship with the infant's mother.He said he was worried that she would tell others about what he had been doing to her.The prosecution went through each of the videos.In one of them he had tied her up in bondage. In another she was exposed with a cat on top of her while he masturbated. In others he performed oral sex on her. In some the little girl lay sleeping.The man's second victim was a 12-year-old who woke up on more than one occasion to find him on top of her performing sexual acts. This happened over a six-month period.The court heard that the girl now 17 was not willing to subject herself to medical exams but in 2013 she tried to commit suicide.The girl s ordeal was only revealed last year when the man was arrested and his electronic devices containing hundreds of pornographic videos and images were seized.In all of the videos depicting his second victim the little girl was asleep when he removed her underwear and fondled her stroking her pubic hair and genitals.His third victim was 11-years-old at the time of the assault.She was friends with the second victim and on several occasions she too had fallen prey to the man as she slept. The girl now 16-years-old does not remember any of incidents.She discovered what he had done to her through videos obtained by the police after his arrest.The court heard that the accused was himself a victim of sodomy as a child. He claimed to have suffered from depression and that he he had attempted suicide numerous times. The court on Friday also heard that he had acknowledged that he has a problem and was sorry for his actions. - TMG Digital