Kim Jong-nam, eldest son of the late former leader Kim Jong-iI, died after reportedly being attacked by two women - said to be agents of North Korea - at Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Monday.He was once seen as heir apparent but fell out of favour following an embarrassing botched bid in 2001 to enter Japan on a forged passport to visit Disneyland.The Kim family has ruled the impoverished country since its creation in 1948 with an iron fist and a pervasive personality cult.But, following his fall from grace, Jong-nam had lived in virtual exile, mainly in the Chinese territory of Macau. Despite him being the younger son, it was Jong-un who took over the isolated and nuclear-armed state after the death of his father in December 2011.Although Jong-nam kept his distance from domestic politics, the North in 2012 tried to assassinate him, South Korean sources have said."There was one attempt on his life, in 2012, and Jong-nam in April 2012 sent a letter to Jong-un saying 'Please spare me and my family'," Kim Byung-ki, a member of South Korea's parliamentary intelligence committee told reporters."It also said 'We have nowhere to go ... we know that the only way to escape is suicide'," he said, adding Jong-nam had scant political support and posed little threat to Jong-un.His murder echoed the fate of his uncle Jang Song-taek, who was executed in Pyongyang in December 2013 for charges including treason and bribery. Jang, an advocate of economic reform known to be close to China, played a key role in Jong-un's rise but his growing power was believed to have irritated the young ruler.In his final days, Jang - once one of the most powerful men in the country - was described by state media as "despicable human scum". Rumours of his execution by anti-aircraft gun or starving dogs fuelled the international sense of horror at the North Korean regime.The latest assassination, if confirmed as the North's work, is more an indication of Jong-un's "paranoid personality" than a calculated move to remove a political threat, South Korea's spymaster Lee Byung-ho said.Jong-nam was the eldest son of Kim Jong-il with his first wife, and in the North the first son is seen as the official heir of the family. The country's founding father Kim Il-sung passed on the helm to his first son Kim Jong-il upon his death in 1994.But the succession instead went to Jong-un, who was born to Jong-il's third wife.Jong-nam - believed to have ties with Beijing's elite - was a relatively outspoken figure, publicly criticising Pyongyang's political system. The 45-year-old, who studied in Moscow and Geneva, said he "personally opposed" the hereditary power transfer in his own family.One of his sons - Han-sol - described his uncle Jong-un as a "dictator" in a rare interview with a Finnish TV station in 2012. Now he is holed up in Macau with his family, said Seoul legislator Lee Chul-woo, another intelligence committee member."They are under the protection of the Chinese authorities," Lee said. Some of those close to the North's ruling family, fearful of an unpredictable future, chose to flee. An aunt and uncle of Jong-un left for the US in 1998 and now own a New York dry-cleaning business. Others were less fortunate.Yi Han-yong, a nephew of Jong-Nam's mother Song Hye-rim, publicly criticised the ruling Kim family in numerous media interviews after defecting to Seoul in 1982. He was shot dead outside his home in 1997 in what Seoul's spy agency described as an assassination by North Korean agents. Yi reportedly muttered "spies" before dying. His attackers were never found.At least five other people - another woman and four men - were wanted for questioning.Pictures taken from CCTV footage at the airport showed a woman - allegedly the detained Doan - wandering about the airport wearing a T-shirt with the word "LOL" on the front. Police said they had also been taken in for questioning a taxi driver who allegedly transported the group of attackers to the airport.