The pictures of the Venezuelan alongside his new coach Steve Komphela that circulated afterwards prompted one social media commentator to ask "Have Chiefs signed a striker or a model?"It was a tongue in cheek jibe though one that hinted at the public scepticism that perhaps Amakhosi who largely battled to fourth place in the PSL by the current six-week break but remain in contention to challenge might be clutching at straws.After all their lone signing of the January transfer window arrives with a record that by the somewhat dubious source of internet searches mostly through Wikipedia suggests journeyman Paez has scored a miserable 11 goals in 11 years at his clubs spanning Slovenia and the lower leagues in Spain and Italy.Other strikers have arrived with dubious records and proved a hit. According to Wikipedia, Mamelodi Sundowns star striker Leonardo Castro had 24 goals in eight years at various clubs. SuperSport United's prolific Jeremy Brockie had one goal in 49 caps for New Zealand.Sometimes these strikers have flown under the radar previously or been played largely out of position. They come to the high tempo PSL and find their groove.That's what Chiefs will be hoping for from Paez. But can a player whose previous clubs include Mallorca B Deportiva Lara and Messina really cut it in the most under-pressure environment for a striker in SA football at Soweto giants Chiefs?It might be something of a gamble but Komphela believes Paez simply has to deal with the pressure."It's like moving into a cup final. You just have to go and play the match " the coach said."It's a usual XI v XI game. But if you want to go and play the occasion you won't come through."We are appealing to our supporters that he's going to score and he's going to score a lot of goals we'd assume - and I hope it happens fast enough."But we don't want to put him under too much pressure that he ends up freezing. So what I'm saying is give him time."If pressure was language it should be French to him and he speaks Spanish."South American strikers like Castro and Jose Torrealba - a hit with Sundowns in the 2000s though a flop later at Chiefs - can bring a different dimension to SA clubs."I think they do " Komphela said. "[But] I have been very cautious in terms of utterances. Because what you say here goes. And he still has to prove whether what you said will go."But these strikers do make a big difference. We do know what Torrealba and Castro did."Komphela said what drew him to Paez was the striker's pace and finishing ability displayed in friendlies though most of all the 26-year-old's confidence in front of goal - an attribute that has lacked in most of the recent options Chiefs have attempted at striker.Bongani Ndulula Edward Manqele and Siphelele Mthembu were terrible in front of goal to say the least."Physically he's quick he's got good technique he's quite smart mentally. And in terms of execution from the matches and the training sessions that we have seen he can finish " the coach said."And in different ways. He can finish with the head with the left and the right. There was a penalty he took at Dobsonville where he hit the roof of the net."And he's confident. For a striker it's all about confidence and bordering on arrogance. He's not arrogant but he's confident enough to take [chances]. And he'll withstand the pressure."There is a world of difference between friendlies and competitive matches.The truth of the matter is that until we finally get a look at Paez we will not be able to know if he is another Brockie or Castro.For Chiefs and Komphela that gamble seemed worth taking. The proof can only come once the cards have been dealt. - TMG Digital