A sea of about 1 000 people coming from the western direction and heading east towards the city centre also overturned trailers acting as mobile kitchens used by businesspeople to sell to food to pilgrims. We were sitting minding our own business when we saw a large group of people heading towards us. We saw road signs flying as they approached so we ran away leaving our belongings behind said one of the pilgrims Emmanuel Nkosi.He said they watched from a distance as the mob destroyed their camping site overturning the trailers and took their bags as they chanted anti-immigrant songs.The pilgrims the majority of them Zimbabweans and Malawians attend the service of Malawian Prophet Shepherd Bushiri. These people are being used by the by the devil to destroy the world. I ran for my life Nkosi said.Reymond Moyo a Zimbabwean pilgrim said he was too late to get away so he was grabbed by the throat and slapped before he was searched for valuables and told to go home or die. I was really scared. It was only when others pleaded with the group they let me go. They took my cell phone and watch. Luckily I did not have any money with me he said.The mob some on foot while others rode in bakkies cars and minibuses proceeded to the CBD attacking anyone trying to take a picture or video of them with a cell phone.#Foreignermarch mob is traveling by foot and by many different vehicles. Quantums, vans and private cars pic.twitter.com/oNcCzPCEi4A teenager walking up Bosman street and listening to music on his cell phone through earphones felt the wrath of the mob. Are you taking pictures? You are full of nonsense one of the marchers said as he accosted his frightened victim with a stick.The youngster tried to run away but he was surrounded within seconds and thrown to the ground.The marshals intervened and he was then left alone. "Foreigners must go. Today is today. We will kill them. They are destroying South Africa " the group sang as they left the frightened young man."They must go!" #Foreignermarch #TshwaneUnrest pic.twitter.com/MtvSe6kwYcBack in Atteridgeville where marchers blocked all the main roads with burning tyres and rubble early in the morning no establishment was opened for business.A dark cloud of smoke hung over the Mshenguville informal settlement as the main road running through the settlement was littered with burning tyres.Residents are now gearing for the worst in anticipation of the group's return from Pretoria CBD. It was bad in the morning. It was really scary as now anybody who was not part of the march was becoming a target. They even uprooted trees and damaged highways' side barriers a resident who only wanted to be identified as Molefe said.A stand off between the locals and the foreigners as the helicopter gets close to the ground. #Foreignermarch pic.twitter.com/vlm4UqBCtVThere is no public transport running between Atteridgeville and the Pretoria city centre with stranded commuters having to walk the 15km distance.Police were on hand to prevent the group of protesters reaching a gathering of foreigners. Stun grenades were thrown and rubber bullets fired TMG Multimedia reports. Some of the foreigners sheltered behind residential fences as the mob approached them.Foreigners behind residential fences #Foreignermarch #TshwaneUnrest pic.twitter.com/F7Zd5CElMXWhile most are not armed police found machetes in one of the cars.Amongst the placards carried by the protesters was an appeal for US President Donald Trump "to come save us".Placard from marchers #Foreignermarch #TshwaneUnrest pic.twitter.com/Qfk8EJPmyn - TMG Digital/TimesLIVE 