Cassiem will join fellow Springbok Teboho Oupa Mohoje and No 8 Paul Schoeman in a back row that boasts lots of firepower in terms of ball-carrying ability. In November last year Cassiem made his Test debut as a blindside flank against Wales and was one of the few players to come out of the 27-13 defeat with his reputation enhanced. Smith though isn t a believer in out-and-out opensides and prefers that all his players have the skills to perform multiple tasks at a high level. For me the number on a player s back especially in certain positions is irrelevant Smith said. The looseforwards have to be able to do everything and we need to adapt. The idea of a big No 7 that smashes it up has been gone for a while at the top end of the game and we shouldn t hang on to it."I d rather have more potential ball carriers. In SA we are still very traditional so I want to better the specific skills of all the back row players especially at the breakdown instead of banking on one player. It s also about learning which breakdowns to target by recognising if there is one that we re unable to win."It s not about chasing rucks all day for the sake of it. As expected captain and Bok centre Francois Venter was not considered for selection as he overcomes a calf strain so Clinton Swart will start at 13 alongside the talented Nico Lee. Swart will make his Super Rugby debut as will lock Justin Basson.Both were members of the team that won the Currie Cup in 2016. Namibian hooker Tortsen van Jaarsveld will captain the Cheetahs with scrumhalf Tian Meyer who starts ahead of new recruit Zee Mkhabela acting as vice captain. Prop Ox Nche who caught the eye during the Currie Cup is on the bench. I m satisfied with where we are after the pre-season Smith said. Everyone trained really hard and we are as prepared as possible."The majority of the players have played Super Rugby and know what the intensity will be like. Van Jaarsveld added: The team has more experience than at the start of 2016."We have a lot of strong leaders in the team and I m looking forward to see how the team has grown. CHEETAHS: 15 Clayton Blommetjies 14 Sergeal Petersen 13 Nico Lee 12 Clinton Swart 11 Raymond Rhule 10 Fred Zeilinga 9 Tian Meyer 8 Paul Schoeman 7 Oupa Mohoje 6 Uzair Cassiem 5 Reniel Hugo 4 Justin Basson 3 Johan Coetzee 2 Torsten van Jaarsveld (capt) 1 Charles Marais Bench: 16 Elandre Huggett 17 Danie Mienie 18 Ox Nche 19 Francois Uys 20 Niell Jordaan 21 Zee Mkhabela 22 Niel Marais 23 Ryno Benjamin LIONS: 15 Andries Coetzee 14 Lionel Mapoe 13 Howard Mnisi 12 Rohan Janse van Rensburg 11 Courtnall Skosan 10 Elton Jantjies 9 Faf de Klerk 8 Warren Whiteley (capt) 7 Ruan Ackermann 6 Jaco Kriel 5 Franco Mostert 4 Andries Ferreira 3 Ruan Dreyer 2 Malcolm Marx 1 Jacques van Rooyen Bench: 16 Akker van der Merwe 17 Corne Fourie 18 Johannes Jonker 19 Lourens Erasmus 20 Kwagga Smith 21 Ross Cronje 22 Harold Vorster 23 Jaco van der Walt - TMG Digital