Ronge, who presumably has aspirations for a long and fruitful career in the SA music industry, has yet to put out worthwhile music, but claims she's shunned for "not being black enough and being too black to be white". She calls Tembisa township her home, claims to have swapped green tea for umqombothi (sorghum beer), to speak fluent Isizulu and that black men "appeal to my better nature".Many whites will be confounded that some people find issue with her. Shouldn't we celebrate the fact that she appears to have embraced Nelson Mandela's vision of a nonracial South Africa by going beyond the threshold some white people are unbothered (unwilling?) to cross?Curiously, there are even black people espousing that school of thought. Good for them - and more relevantly, good for Ronge. Because you see, she needs black people more than she needs white people. Blacks are the overwhelming majority in terms of the consumption of SA house music. And there is an almost negligible number of women DJs on the scene.But what is music without its gimmicks and "artists" ready to parade them? Because for every Eminem there is an Iggy Azalea. The former is an iconic rapper and master lyricist who has garnered global acclaim, whereas for the latter, as The Guardian's Ben Westhoff wrote in 2015, "race remains her primary identifier". And this seems to be the only thing going for Ronge. Her "art" has failed to transcend race. She revels in being a "black person trapped in white skin", being a "kasi chick".Ronge told this paper last week that "African culture and African women are so amazing. They own who they are. I don't see that much of it with white women." Black women have always known that - they have never sought assimilation into white culture to be accepted or recognised. It appears that Ronge misunderstands the difference between cultural appropriation and cultural appreciation. It's clear that she doesn't believe she is employing bombastic tactics to milk a very healthy cow.When the Grammys tapped singer Sting to lead the Bob Marley tribute alongside Marley's sons Ziggy and Damian, and Bruno Mars and Rihanna, it hardly raised an eyebrow. Sting, who was not only a singer but a bassist for The Police, has a long and successful connection to reggae music. That was a nod to Marley. That was appreciation. There was no ripping off. Contrast that with Miley Cyrus's cringeworthy antics in the same year, at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards, where she twerked on Robin Thicke. That was what jumping on a bandwagon looked like - and it reeked of a lack of originality. So often, it feels that beyond "joining in", some white entertainers believe they can improve on something black people have always known or done.On F.U.B.U, one of the standout songs on her empowering A Seat at the Table, Solange Knowles candidly sings that she wrote the song as an ode to her son and to "all my niggas in the whole wide world". Three minutes and 51 seconds deep, she delivers the knockout: "get so much from us then forget us". This encapsulates the entire debate of cultural appropriation - do not take all of the credit for the triple chocolate cake getting you the plaudits, without acknowledging the influence of cocoa.Do not be Rachel Dolezal and use it to build a career - thanks to the brouhaha over her insistence that she was "definitely not white", she became a published author. Her memoir, In Full Colour: Finding my Place in a Black and White World, is slated for release next month. Do not be model Gigi Hadid or the editors of Vogue Italia, who thought it would be a great idea in 2015 for Hadid to wear an afro wig and fuller lips and a tan, instead of hiring a black model.Respect black art or leave it alone.Ultimately an artist's authenticity is a huge component in their longevity and affinity with their audience. Ronge comes across as unoriginal and likely to turn people off before her music is heard - assuming that's what she really came for.