Schoeman took bronze at last year s Rio Olympics just seven seconds ahead of Murray and then a month later won the grand final in Cozumel Mexico where Murray again ended fourth.SA has seldom had more than one world-class star in the same sport at the same time but Murray insisted this was no rivalry.For one they were different types of racers and thrived in different circumstances. If the Brownlees [Jonathan and Alistair the British brothers] aren t there then his chances of doing well do go down because they get out the swim smash the bike [and that] means a breakaway. If it s not a breakaway it s a different race. If it s a breakaway I m screwed. If it s not a breakaway then he s kind of at risk. The Brownlees instigated breakaways at the Olympics and in the grand final and Schoeman a strong swimmer capitalised on both.Murray's best leg is the running.The Brownlees won t be in action in the sprint triathlon on Saturday in Cape Town where Schoeman and Murray head the field in this season-opening sprint triathlon which with a 750m swim 20km cycle and 5km run is half the Olympic distance.Murray added there was no needle between him and Schoeman. I don t see him as competition. We race for South Africa so we both represent the country we both build the sport together " he said. We re both relaxed characters we re not I want to beat you and screw you . We were at the after party in Cozumel and I was buying him tequila shots the whole night. We were both having a party and fun and I think that s what it s more about. And who drank more shots? He did win Murray said with a smile.Murray is keen to have a bit more fun this year the first of the Olympic cycle leading up to Tokyo 2020. He will compete in a Half Ironman as well as the SA Xterra (triathlon with trail running and mountain-biking) championships.He described his training so far this year as interesting. It s been an interesting build-up. Four weeks ago I was still skiing in Germany Murray said.Then Murray went with girlfriend Rachel Klamer to train with the Dutch team at altitude in Namibia for three weeks. I m pretty happy with how I managed to fast forward things in a few weeks of training. It should be interesting to see how the first race turns out I guess. In a sprint-distance race you can get more away with talent than you can with outright form. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport