ANC MP Makhosi Khoza has revealed that her daughter is receiving death threats. Khoza has been among a few ANC MPs on support of party members to vote based on their conscious in the upcoming vote of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma. She has since been subjected to a number of threats including a march to her house by the ANC Youth League. Addressing a public debate in Cape Town on Tuesday night‚ she revealed that earlier on the day her daughter received the latest death threat. "I never thought that they would escalate [this] to my children‚" she said. Khoza said she received a message posted on her daughter's Facebook page and later in an sms. "I am really frightened. I can't lie. I don't mind if I have to face whatever because it's me who is taking the stand‚" she said. She later showed reporters the messages sent to her daughter. One reads: "Good morning. I'm [name withheld] and I'm from Cape Town. I work hand in hand with the people who wanna kill your mother. Your mother knows me but she doesn't want to hear me out‚ nor want me to assist her‚ in all she doesn't want to trust (sic)." It goes on to say that the beautiful thing was that Khoza knew there were people who wanted to kill her but other comrades of hers "don't know that there is planning done to kill them too." Khoza also slammed her party for labelling her indisciplined by speaking out. She said she was shocked by party chief whip‚ Jackson Mthembu's public statement about her "extreme indiscipline". She said she has not received any formal charges from the ANC. She added that she had opened two cases with the police and had even written to the Speaker but didn't have any protection. Khoza said she supported the secret ballot. Also part of the panel was Professor Steven Friedman who argued against a secret ballot saying it would set a precedent where MPs would conduct their business in secret. UDM leader‚ Bantu Holomisa strongly disagreed with Friedman saying he was expressing the sentiments of some of the ANC MPS. Holomisa added that there was a real threat against MPs, citing Khoza's as an example.