Sizwe Maguni 23 graduated with a Bachelor of Education degree from the University of Zululand on Monday. Some of the subjects he excelled in were geography environmental management English elementary statistics educational law and school management.Maguni who was orphaned at the age of 18 months and was raised by his granny and aunt said the recipe for success was his unwavering discipline to stay focused despite numerous personal challenges. My background pushed me to do well. I grew up in a family who are very poor. My gran s grant helped pay for my school fees. Life was a struggle for my gran and aunt. I always said I wanted to improve my life said Maguni who is currently teaching at Mpheti Mahlatsi Secondary School in Johannesburg.He said throughout his high school he maintained first position in class and completed his matric at Gelekede Secondary School in Vryheid with seven distinctions. Working hard is my life. Since high school I would stay up until 1.30 am studying and would wake up again at 4am during exam time to make sure I am prepared. This helped me to get a bursary. Even at university I had a group known as the Mlolozy who studied together said Maguni.Maguni said in his matric year his maternal aunt Shongani Mnguni died a week before his geography paper. I was extremely close to her. She was my best friend. It was difficult and everyone at home were in mourning. I stayed with a friend so I could study. Two days before my aunt died she said to me I must study hard and get a good education he said.Maguni said his teachers also believed in him and gave him support and encouragement. They kept in constant contact with me during my studies at university and supported me with finances as I was severely lacking in that area. I will never forget what they did for me and I thank them for their love and support said Maguni.He said while at school his dream was to become a lawyer but he later chose to pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree. Maguni said his younger sister and his gran Songeliwe Ziqubu together with his aunt Phulisiwe Mnguni attended his graduation. They are very proud of me he said.- TMG Digital/TimesLIVE