Chiefs substitute Ryan Moon appeared to earn his side the 77th-minute winner at FNB Stadium on Saturday night. But Arrows substitute Knox Mutizwa was allowed to head in a 94th-minute equaliser in the dying seconds of added time.The result surely sounded the death knell on fourth-placed Amakhosi s already faint title hopes.Komphela struggled for words trying to explain how Chiefs could concede late again having also done so in their previous two matches a 3-2 defeat against Cape Town City and 2-2 draw against SuperSport United. Very disappointed. And it s not the first time. I don t know how many setbacks we have suffered like this Amakhosi's coach lamented."You can t you can t ... you don't learn from this and each time it happens you ask yourself But why should it be happening so often? There was no reason for us not to manage that. Four minutes are gone and it s just maybe the last kick and you re so unfortunate you concede again. And I strongly believe we haven t been fair with our supporters in a sense that moments like these they erase everything that they had seen throughout the match. And it's just sad.Chiefs controlled play especially in the second half against a compact Arrows who were dangerous on the counterattack. One has to acknowledge that the opponents played a good game. Compliments to the coach (Clinton Larsen) Komphela said. One of their profiles is being quick out of the blocks. In the first half they could have caught us (Chiefs keeper) Itumeleng Khune kept us in the game. In the second half it was better. We were careful with the ball because we knew that if you lose it they come at you at high speed. We got a beautiful goal from Ryan Moon. Just when you thought OK we battled it out we ll take one goal and three points then you suffer another setback. It s just sad. You cannot comprehend this. You don't know why we should suffer such setbacks. And as a coach you own up and say that we should do better next time. (But) you don t know when you are going to do better. Matches that we are supposed to be winning we are just giving away. Chiefs are now destined to finish without a trophy for the second time in two seasons under Komphela.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport