Senong named the Bidvest Wits duo of Phakamani Mahlambi and Reeve Frosler along with SuperSport United s Teboho Mokoena and Grant Margeman of Ajax Cape Town in his 21-man squad for the tournament that runs from May 20 to June 11 in South Korea.Those four players all first-teamers at their Premier League clubs could not travel with Amajita to Netherlands as part of the preparations for the tournament with their clubs arguing they needed them in their Absa Premiership commitments.Senong faced similar problems in the lead-up to the Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) in Zambia where teams refused to release certain players.The SA Football Association (Safa) had to intervene brokering a compromise that saw Mahlambi available for certain matches of the Afcon just as long as he will be available for the World Cup. As a technical team all that was required from us was to identify the best 21 in the country Senong said. It wasn t easy. We worked hard. We selected the best 21 and we submitted it to the management. When it comes to the release of players that s in the hands of our technical director Neil Tovey and the CEO Denis Mumble. We trust that they will help us in bringing those players so that they can be with us on time. So that they can acclimatise to the conditions and we build team cohesion. Amajita will leave for Korea on Wednesday the same day that league-chasing Wits visit their bogey side Free State Stars.Once Amajita have touched down in Korea they will play a friendly with Costa Rica on May 15. Senong hopes his team can get a few more games to prepare for a group that features Japan Uruguay and Italy. AMAJITA WORLD CUP FIXTURES: v Japan Sunday May 21 Suwon World Cup Stadium 5pm (10am SA time) v Italy Wednesday May 24 Suwon World Cup Stadium 8pm (1pm SA time) v Uruguay Saturday May 27 Incheon World Cup Stadium 8pm (1pm SA time)FULL SQUAD Goalkeepers: Sanele Tshabalala (Bidvest Wits) Mondli Mpoto (SuperSport United) Khulekani Kubheka (Mamelodi Sundowns)Defenders: Malebogo Modise Thendo Mukumela (both Mamelodi Sundowns) Reeve Frosler (Bidvest Wits) Tercious Malepe Sandile Mthethwa (both Orlando Pirates) Shane Saralina (Ajax Cape Town)Midfielders: Sipho Mbule Teboho Mokoena (both SuperSport United) Wiseman Meyiwa (Kaizer Chiefs) Sibongakonke Mbatha (Bidvest Wits) Kobamelo Kodisang (Platinum Stars) Grant Margeman Masilakhe Phohlongo (both Ajax Cape Town) Luther Singh (Sporting Braga Portugal) Thabo Cele (Real Sport Clube Portugal)Strikers: Keletso Makgalwa (Mamelodi Sundowns) Phakamani Mahlambi (Bidvest Wits) Liam Jordan (Sporting Lisbon)- TMG Digital/TMG Sport