In its report released on Tuesday Amnesty International said that 281 people were killed globally in 2016 for defending human rights up from 156 in 2015.Amnesty International secretary general Salil Shetty said the figures were a clear indication that the defenders of human rights were increasingly under threat.Among the people defending human rights are community leaders lawyers journalists and other human rights defenders across the world. What we are witnessing today is a full-frontal assault by governments armed groups corporations and others with power on the very right to defend human rights. Human rights defenders bear the brunt of this global attack said Shetty. From President Putin to President Xi and President el-Sisi leaders across every continent are increasingly dismantling the foundations needed for a free just and equal society. By removing their right to protest placing them under surveillance and targeting them and their communities with harassment threats and physical attacks governments are choking off the oxygen supply to those standing up for our rights. Authoritarian leaders intent on crushing human rights would have us believe that only they have our best interests at heart but they don t. It is in fact those who defend our human rights who are standing up for us and they face persecution for daring to do so. Now in 2017 the plight of human rights defenders has reached crisis point because of the measures abusive states have taken. African states were among the cases highlighted:- in Madagascar environmental activist Clovis Razafimalala remains detained on politically motivated charges in what appears to be a case of the Malagasy authorities trying to silence critical voices. As part of his environmental work Razafimalala has repeatedly denounced the government s failure to tackle illegal trafficking of rosewood and other timber.- in Zimbabwe Pastor Evan Mawarire founder and one of the leaders of the #Thisflag movement is facing state-led persecution for leading several protests in 2016 against corruption human rights violations and the declining economy. He faces trumped-up charges of sedition and insulting the national flag of Zimbabwe . His trial is ongoing.- in countries like Botswana Lesotho Malawi South Africa Zambia and Zimbabwe journalists and lawyers continue to face harassment and intimidation simply for doing their work.The threats on the human rights defenders manifest firstly in personal attacks.But the threats could also result in killings and enforced disappearance prosecution stigmatisation and smear campaigns and reprisal. Another indicator of these threats are attacks on communication such as an increase in the use of surveillance and internet censorship.The space was also shrinking for civil society as there were attacks on the rights and freedom of peaceful assembly and efforts to hinder the right to freedom of association. Human rights defenders also faced attacks from armed groups and there were constant attacks on those fighting for the lesbian gay bisexual transgender and intersex community.In light of the unprecedented dangers human rights activists face Amnesty International launched a new campaign Brave calling on states to recognise the legitimate work of those working to stand up for the inherent dignity and equal rights of all people and to ensure their freedom and safety.