United will start the afternoon just two points away from bottom club Baroka FC and the Chilli Boys' premiership status will be on the line when they face Free State Stars in Bethlehem on what is expected to be a dramatic final day of the season.Asked if he was having sleepless nights ahead of the crunch encounter in Bethlehem Malesela said: I sleep. If I have a problem with sleeping I take two beers and sleep. United need a single point to survive a relegation playoff but Malesela cut a relaxed figure this week and said reaching 30 points with a victory on Saturday would be a good way to end the season.Chippa are 13th on the log with 27 points from 29 games. They are level on points with Stars but the Chilli Boys are above them courtesy of a better goal difference.Both sides are just a point away from relegation-threatened Highlands Park who are positioned 15th on the log and two ahead of basement side Baroka.Although Malesela said earlier this week they had to either win or draw the match it appears he is reluctant to share the spoils with Stars and he plans to go for the kill. It s not only about winning the game it s about getting 30 points that s important us he said. We are obviously glad we have both options. We will get chances in the game because Free State Stars has to open up and play a more offensive game. The commitment still stands that we need to save this club or keep it in the PSL. I am very confident that Chippa will remain in the league. He said Saturday s Nedbank Cup semi-final close penalties loss against SuperSport United is an example of what his troops are capable of doing. We are taking that as an advantage for ourselves to say if we can put up a fight like that in a cup match why not in a very big league match. So the game comes as an added advantage. I think also the fact that we played the Nedbank helps us or gives us a bit of an edge. Obviously Free State Stars did not play last weekend."We played so we have a bit of a game time behind us. Malesela said injuries forced him to make a couple of changes to the starting line-up that put up such a brave fight against SuperSport.But the United coach said he was happy to welcome back team captain Thamsanqa Sangweni.Meanwhile four of the six matches on PSL Super Saturday tomorrow will have a dedicated channel. SuperSport 3 and 4 will give updates and live visual crossings to the other matches. Kaizer Chiefs versus Wits at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg will be on SS4 Golden Arrows versus Orlando Pirates at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban is set for channel 198 Ajax Cape Town versus Baroka at Cape Town Stadium is scheduled for SS9 There will be live crossovers for updates and goals for the games between Free State Stars and Chippa United and Polokwane versus Cape Town on SABC and SuperSport Highlands Park versus Mamelodi Sundowns in Johannesburg will be on SS3 - TMG Digital/TMG Sport