Bali Seychelles Maldives UAE and Egypt are also expected to be sought-after destinations for South Africans in 2017. South Africans are looking for something different. Many love Mauritius Thailand and Australia and may have travelled there repeatedly but now they re looking for something different. That s where these destinations come in says Carlos Luis from the Flight Centre Travel Group.Luis says Sri Lanka is at the forefront of the hot destinations queue because of its beaches culture and wildlife. Sri Lanka is becoming a very exciting destination globally and we expect that this will be on South Africans bucket list in 2017 he says.Luis says Sri Lanka and Bali also offer exciting alternatives to clients who love Thailand but are looking for something different .Women planning to visit are advised to practice caution however.Lonely Planet has flagged the country as a place where women travelling solo may experience uncomfortable levels of male attention including groping hands on crowded buses or trains.Overall the country is seen as safe for tourists.A mid-range hotel is priced at under R1 000 a night according to the budget travel site while meals at top-end places costs from R300.The country is listed 8th out of 12 of the world's cheapest holiday destinations for 2017 by international travel search company Skyscanner. The top five on the list are Cambodia Vietnam India Bolivia and Hungary.South Africa is still a cheaper destination though. The price of a basket of 10 tourist items including meals and drinks costs 48.89 (about R830) in Cape Town compared with 70.61 in Colombo Sri Lanka's capital according to a survey.See the holiday cost barometer here Luis says the island nations of Seychelles and Maldives are the alternate destinations of choice for South Africans who love visiting Mauritius. For those South Africans who love Mauritius but have travelled there a number of times we expect Seychelles and the Maldives to feature strongly this year. Although these destinations are often seen as similar kinds of holidays Seychelles and Maldives offers a different kind of experience with a similar feel he says.However Luis says while Sri Lanka and the others are on the up the old mainstays are still popular. Cape Town Australia Thailand New York and Mauritius might not be the hot destinations this year but they are still popular destinations for South Africans who will continue to travel there if not necessarily in the same numbers he says.