The page, which carried Buhle's name and picture, hurled razor-sharp insults at Norma and threatened to leak nude videos of Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba.Dear Noma Gigaba This is just a reminder that i left your man for you. What happened between me and the Minister is in...Posted by Buhle Mkhize on Tuesday, May 9, 2017Dear Noma Gigaba This is just a reminder that i left your man for you. What happened between me and the Minister is in...The page also posted a screenshot it claimed showed Malusi begging Buhle for forgiveness.My poor Minister trying to beg. I will decide tomorrow whether to upload his naked video and pictures on that South African Home made sextape video website called. Good night people....Posted by Buhle Mkhize on Tuesday, May 9, 2017My poor Minister trying to beg. I will decide tomorrow whether to upload his naked video and pictures on that South African Home made sextape video website called. Good night people....Posted by Buhle Mkhize on Tuesday, May 9, 2017A Twitter account set up in the name of Buhle then distanced itself from the page and warned fans not to be duped. My Instagram and Facebook will NEVER have such again. And this is NOT even my name on Facebook. STOP THIS whoever you are pic.twitter.com/6NSCAuxInm Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017This is FALSE. Mpandlomz is saved as Sihogo Asikho on my phone. Hasn't called from his number ever since I posted his messages on Instagram pic.twitter.com/qC0hIucbhU Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017My Instagram and Facebook will NEVER have such again. And this is NOT even my name on Facebook. STOP THIS whoever you are pic.twitter.com/6NSCAuxInmThis is FALSE. Mpandlomz is saved as Sihogo Asikho on my phone. Hasn't called from his number ever since I posted his messages on Instagram pic.twitter.com/qC0hIucbhUWhoever is running that Facebook 'Designs logos' for a living to think people will buy. People know my writing style. Uthunywe ubani? Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017I suspect it's an attempt to get this Twitter account deemed fake. Ayibooo kahleni I'll go live ngininyise stop it, in Zulu-ke kodwa... Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017Whoever is running that Facebook 'Designs logos' for a living to think people will buy. People know my writing style. Uthunywe ubani?I suspect it's an attempt to get this Twitter account deemed fake. Ayibooo kahleni I'll go live ngininyise stop it, in Zulu-ke kodwa...Buhle and Norma's feud hit the headlines two years ago after Buhle claimed to have had an affair with Malusi. The minister later released a statement denying the claims.