Byleveld, 67, a chain smoker who operated on Grandpa mixed with Coca-Cola, brought several notorious serial killers to book.He succumbed to lung cancer at the Life Wilgeheuwel Hospital in Roodepoort on the West Rand.Messages of condolence to his family and friends are being shared on his Facebook wall.Byleveld, dubbed the "manhunter", was regarded as the country's top detective for his record of nabbing some of the worst criminals in South Africa.Cedric Maake, the Wemmer Pan Killer also known as the Hammer Killer, raped 14 women and murdered 27 between 1996 and 1997. Convicted in 2000, he was served a 1340-year prison sentence for his reign of terror in southern Johannesburg.Serial child-killer Sipho Dube Mhlangathi was caught in 2004. Mhlangathi, who used to drink a concoction of beer and battery acid, received 10 life sentences and 114 years in jail.Byleveld's skill also led to the arrest of the Nasrec Killer. Lazarus Mazingane was sentenced to 17 life terms and more than 700 years in prison for 16 murders and 22 rapes between 1993 and 1998.The renowned investigator famously also solved the kidnap and murder of Leigh Matthews, 21, who disappeared from Johannesburg's Bond University campus. Fellow student Donovan Moodley was convicted in 2005.Byleveld also solved the rape and murder case of Sheldean Human, 7, from Claremont, Pretoria. Her killer, Andrew Jordaan, then 25, who kept newspaper clippings of Byle-veld, confessed to him and pointed out where he had dumped the girl's body.Byleveld retired from the police in 2010 after 38 years of service, starting a private-eye business.A biography, Byleveld: Dossier of a Serial Sleuth, by Hanlie Retief, recounted his career in 2011. He told the Sunday Times in an interview he never wanted to be placed on a pedestal."A good detective must have a passion for his job. You must accept there's no regular working hours, no time for holidays. You have to be totally dedicated . When I put my mind to tracking down a killer, I don't easily give up, even if the investigation lasts for years. I hate losing."His commitment to his job took its toll on his private life.His first wife, Esmie Byleveld, whom he married in 1972, told the Saturday Star: "The first 10 years of my marriage were bliss. We were head over heels in love," she said. "But then he joined the murder and robbery unit. He changed. He saw some gruesome things. He was introduced to alcohol and beautiful women. He never off-loaded to a counsellor because he didn't want to."Byleveld remarried at the age of 61 in December 2011 to Elize Smit, 52. - TMG Digital