 I regard this conduct ... as inhumane and a gross violation of the safety and dignity of the victims said Christelle Vosloo the Democratic Alliance mayor of Theewaterskloof Municipality.Vosloo was reacting on Saturday to a video posted by TimesLive which showed four municipality law enforcement officers lining the four thieves up against a roadside rockface and pelting them with the apples they were alleged to have stolen. WATCH: Laughing lawmen pelt men with apples they are alleged to have stolen LAW ENFORCEMENT VILLIERSDORPLAW ENFORCEMENT VILLIERSDORP This is what these officers does when you are caught Anyone who can Identify these officers of with information please inform Kevi van WykPosted by News, Accidents, Robberies &amp; Incidents on Friday, May 26, 2017LAW ENFORCEMENT VILLIERSDORP This is what these officers does when you are caught Anyone who can Identify these officers of with information please inform Kevi van WykIn a statement to TimesLive Vosloo said: I am devastated that the victims had to endure this trauma and I believe their constitutional rights not to be exposed to psychological emotional and physical abuse had been violated. I will ensure an immediate investigation into the incident. If any personnel of the municipality are found guilty in regards to the incident they will face the strongest disciplinary actions possible. I call on the community to give me and the municipality an opportunity to investigate the incident and to deal with it appropriately. I will keep them informed on an ongoing basis. I will meet with the victims and ensure that they receive all the support available to deal with the trauma they suffered. Kevi van Wyk who posted the video to his Facebook page Boland Dorpe told TimesLive the incident happened earlier this week. The officers caught the men stealing apples in Villiersdorp he said. They took them out into the mountains then made them line up before throwing the apples at them. Van Wyk said the woman who had sent him the video had another which allegedly showed the officers stripping one of the men naked and beating him up. I have the names of three of the men he said. They re all based in Villiersdorp. Van Wyk said he was really upset by the footage. It s wrong to steal apples but I don t think this is the way to deal with it he said.Scores of people commented on the post many of them condemning the officers actions. These law enforcement officers are a disgrace to the uniform they wearing said Michelle Ward. I hope they get lined up and have the law books thrown at them. These are human beings irrespective of how they got the apples. Suhayl Ahmed said: Obviously one of their own colleagues whipped out their phone to video the entire thing. Now they going to be sued for defamation of character and assault and hopefully get their asses kicked out of the force. But Sindy van der Wal said she had heard the men had been throwing apples at passing motorists so the law officers taught them a lesson .She added: These guys won't die from being thrown with apples nobody is that soft. If (they) were just walking doing nothing wrong then that's another story altogether. Reserve judgment till all facts are presented. 