When I came out of my front door and down the porch steps I noticed a man sleeping on the sidewalk. Well, his head was on the sidewalk: the rest of him was in the street, perpendicular to the pavement. He was on his back with his head turned slightly to the side. He was neatly dressed. He looked like someone who has arrived early for an appointment and is taking a short rest using the kerb as a pillow.There was a driver waiting for me two houses down and I was preoccupied with my morning, but as I walked past him two thoughts occurred. The first was that he was lying very close to the rear wheels of my neighbour's Jeep and I hoped Craig would see him there on his way to work and not accidentally reverse onto him. The second was that although he was lying so still, his eyes were open.He was cold to the touch, and his shoulder felt very hard. When I shook it, the rest of his body didn't move the way you expect it to move. I put my hand on his throat below his jaw and it was cold and there was nothing beating.I called the police and they had some searching questions for me. Did I know him? For how long? Had I perhaps hit him with my car? They told me that I needed to wait for them to arrive. I said I had somewhere to be but I felt ashamed even as I said that. When a man dies on the sidewalk outside your house, head pointing to your door, the least you can do is wait with him a while.I don't think I've ever seen a dead body before, although perhaps I have in car crashes I've driven past, and I also have a weird sense that there might be some incident that I've temporarily forgotten. My father was in the hospital when he died. He'd been there for a while, and he died several hours before sunrise. The hospital called my mom and the phone woke me in my bed and I listened to her crying on the phone and while she called Aunty Vi from upstairs, but when someone came to check on me I closed my eyes and pretended I was asleep.So he died in the night and while his body lay unattended in the hospital bed someone stole the watch off his wrist. He was proud of that watch. It was his most valuable possession and he wanted me to have it, and although I would almost certainly never have worn it, because it was gold, I'd like to have it now, but what upsets me most is the thought of him lying there undefended while someone stole his stuff. I never went to the funeral. My mom said I could play Atari with the Renyard twins if I preferred, so that's what I did.I sat beside the man on the sidewalk and waited for the police. They took nearly an hour but I don't blame them. The police have things to do and he wasn't going anywhere. I sat beside him and watched the lights come on in the houses as people woke up, and I heard a mom in the house across the way shout at her kid to get ready for school. I listened to the seagulls calling and flapping overhead and I saw the orange light of the sun behind Signal Hill.There were no marks on him or signs of violence. He looked around my age. He had a Woolworths packet beside him, in the crook of his arm, stuffed full, inside another Woolworths packet to make it less likely to rip. I was curious to know what was inside, what he was guarding so carefully, but it didn't feel right to pry.The police arrived and the constable recognised him and said his name was Garth and sometimes he lived in the streets around Sea Point although sometimes he vanished, probably to go back home for a while. I made a statement and I signed something and the constable promised to let me know what the autopsy said and to keep me posted with developments. I went into the house to change my shirt because the day was turning out warmer than I'd expected, and when I came back out the sidewalk was empty and you would never know anything had ever happened there.