After a dismal 2016 that saw the Boks win just four out of 12 Tests and suffer eight losses Coetzee has to get his 31-man group right despite a long injury list. Part of the excuse Coetzee used by the end of 2016 was that he was appointed late to the job and didn t have enough time to prepare his team.Ironically though the Boks won two of their first three Tests in his charge when they beat Ireland 2-1 in a tight home series. The more time the coach spent with them the worse results became.But there has been more clarity about the coaching staff and more time to map out the season in its entirety. But besides the Lions and to a lesser extent the Stormers SA teams have struggled in Super Rugby this year making selections even more complex for the Bok coach. He s held three training camps and will have a strong idea about the type of player he wants but the reality is that in certain positions SA is thin at the moment. No 8 Duane Vermeulen is set to be the only overseas-based player picked for the series with Francois Louw injured. Coetzee is likely to go for 18 forwards and 13 backs in his initial squad. Lions scrumhalf Ross Cronje has done enough this season to push his claims as the Boks starting halfback while Sharks centre Lukhanyo Am should be rewarded for his excellence and consistency throughout the season. Lions wing Courtnall Skosan is another newcomer set for a taste of Test rugby after another strong season.He is the leading South African try scorer in Super Rugby with seven. Coetzee will again entrust Elton Jantjies and Pat Lambie with the flyhalf duties assuming the latter is cleared of concussion after another heavy blow last week. Stormers utility back Dillyn Leyds is also set to be rewarded for his excellent form that his seen him play with composure at wing fullback and flyhalf this season.He gives the coach an emergency flyhalf option as well. Up front Bulls prop Lizo Gqoboka who has been a rare shining light in their otherwise shambolic campaign is set to make his first Bok squad. Cheetahs prop Ox Nche is another likely to receive the nod despite playing in a struggling team while veteran hooker Chiliboy Ralepelle is on track for a Bok recall. Probable Bok squad: Backs Lukhanyo Am Ruan Combrinck Ross Cronje Damian de Allende Elton Jantjies Jesse Kriel Pat Lambie Dillyn Leyds Lionel Mapoe Rudy Paige Jan Serfontein Courtnall Skosan Jano Vermaak. Forwards Uzair Cassiem Lood de Jager Jean-Luc du Preez Pieter-Steph du Toit Eben Etzebeth Lizo Gqoboka Siya Kolisi Frans Malherbe Malcolm Marx Bongi Mbonambi Franco Mostert Tendai Mtawarira Ox Nche Trevor Nyakane Coenie Oosthuizen Chiliboy Ralepelle Duane Vermeulen Warren Whiteley. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport