The deputy president's visit to the Shembe church, orchestrated to prop up his campaign, was disguised as a prayer meeting.My photographer colleague Jackie Clausen and I were about to get an experience of a lifetime.As we left our car, a grey-bearded man - there are thousands of these izinhlalisuthi - gave me a firm pat on the shoulder and said I must take off my shoes and leave them behind.I grudgingly complied, and as I felt the warm earth kissing the soles of my feet I knew I was in for a ride ... well, a walk. Jackie stubbornly kept her shoes on, and boy she was in for it. As we ascended the coarse gravel promenade teeming with gum trees and stalls on either side, selling everything from meat to fruit to church paraphernalia, I could feel the discomfort as I chose where to put my feet. The walk (and the path) to the main house is sacred, proven by the discipline and decorum of members clutching grass mats under their armpits.To my agitation an old man passed me with ease and sarcastically said: "That's nothing, you should climb Nhlangakazi" (a Shembe pilgrimage hill outside Durban).I was missing my shoes dearly. My feet were screaming as I warded off a man trying to sell me umqhele (leopard skin headgear) for a "little" R200.By the time we arrived, huffing breathlessly, at a gate manned by the rudest men on earth, Jackie was told to take off her shoes. This time there was no argument. Then Presidential Protection Unit vehicles started wailing their sirens down the promenade. They passed us, flanked by perspiring armed men in dark suits and glasses, hoofing and elbowing us off the path. (Some of Ramaphosa's bodyguards were, ridiculously, also barefoot.)Finally we were let inside the home of Unyazilwezulu - which translates to "thunder of the heavens". There we spent much of our time kneeling and reciting the signatory "Aaameeeen".More woes were still in the pipeline for poor Jackie as she was candidly told the premises was not a place for women and was ushered outside. However, the worst was still to come.As Ramaphosa and his entourage were led inside the massive temple, we were told by a man called Shozi that we could not use the same entrance. We were to go via another gate reserved for the commoners.We did this sheepishly, made to walk in the midst of not-so-nice men. We trudged on their grass mats and neat white towels.Words flew from the temperamental greybeards clad in imiqhele: Obani laba abasigxobayo? ("who are these people stepping on us?"), yeyi wena khandakhulu wahamba engathi indlu kanyoko lena ("hey you big head why walk as if this is your mother's house?"), and sukani zintatheli nisisitha uMongameli ("get out of our sight you journalist, you're blocking us from seeing the president").We said hundreds of sorrys as we hopped around amid a serious odour of authority. When we settled down - thankfully under the shade of an umthombo tree overlooking tranquil Qhubu Lake - a kind man in a white gown (umnazaretha) who introduced himself as baba uXaba rolled out grass mats for us. (I would later learn that he is an SAPS captain.) He was kind enough to tell me the grass mat here is not called icansi, but ukhukho.By now a white sea of congregants were kneeling in silence anticipating the grand entrance of Prophet Shembe.As the congregants began reciting Isiqalo Somthandazo Wokuvuka, Xaba guided us when to sit and when to kneel as we followedisilandelo sebandla in the borrowed Izihlabelelo zamanazaretha hymn book emblazoned with the prophet's face on the cover. The constant kneeling and sitting was an excruciating exercise for someone with a charismatic church background.If you have read Herman Charles Bosman's short story A Bekkersdal Marathon you would understand this. Shozi from our earlier encounter kept on side-eying us over his specs as if to say: "One more deviating nizoyisutha induku" (you will be dealt with). This strict decorum and protocol induced the fear of God in us newbies.By the time we were on verse 32 of the "Bekkersdal marathon" my feet, knees and bum were killing me. The three-hour service was dominated by sitting up and kneeling down and a glimpse of a drowsy Ramaphosa under a gazebo before the pulpit.I was perturbed that I could no longer place Jackie in the sea of female congregants.A journalist zipped his way among the moody izinhlalisuthi, taking photos with his phone and causing consternation among these temperamental men. One shouted: Yeyi kwenzani manje lokhu, hlala phansi! ("hey what's this thing doing now, sit down!") and another muttered unprintable words before being shushed.For the first time I let out a giggle and this was all the panacea I needed for my burning feet, knees and bum.Although another half a kilometre back to the car was pending, the discipline, decorum, strict protocol and authoritative odour of these men of KwaShembe had humbled me. It also humbled former KwaZulu-Natal premier Senzo Mchunu as we walked back together to the distant parking lot - still barefoot.