This emerged during a briefing by the department to members of the Portfolio Committee of Justice and Correctional Services in Parliament yesterday at which MPs were also told that overcrowding in Pollsmoor has been reduced by 90%.The focus on the notorious prison was in response to a Cape Town High Court Order which compelled the Department of Correctional Services (DCS) to reduce overcrowding in Pollsmoor Remand Detention by at least 150%.Constructed in 1975 to accommodate 1 619 remand detainees Pollsmoor had a total of 4 066 (251%) remand detainees by 6 December 2016. DCS came up with an action plan which it says has halved the inmate population by a staggering 161 09% (2 570) as of 8 May 2017.The issue of overcrowding in correctional facilities particularly in Pollsmmoor was brought to the court by Sonke Gender Justice making reference to a number of challenges as cited by Jugde Edwin Cameron s Report of 2015. Although the case was brought against the Government of South Africa and listed Correctional Services as one of the respondents the DCS said they saw it as important to speedily expedite the matter and reduce overcrowding."Pollsmoor Remand Detention Centre was designed to accommodate only 1 619 offenders. However the past 42 years has seen new courts being built in the Cape Metro thus significantly increasing the offender population in this centre. As a result a number of services were compromised and these were highlighted greatly by the Cameron s Report."In order to create more bed space in the Cape Metro Pollsmoor Goodwood and Malmesbury correctional facilities have been earmarked to largely accommodate Remand Detainees. As a result sentenced offenders have been diverted to other centres in the province and the Northern Cape and Free State."Due to the movement of sentenced offenders to other centres some of the single cells have been converted into informal libraries as they are being used as distribution point " the department said."This is to encourage the culture of reading... A post of librarian has been created in order to manage and oversee this process."Elaborating on its "multi-pronged" action plan the DCS said the position of the Head of Centre has been filled. The management of the centre has also been strengthened and staff shortages addressed. Critically all security vacancies have been filled with 20 additional members appointed to bring stability. This has seen the vacancy rate reduced to five percent.Plans to appoint an additional doctor strictly to service remand detainees is currently under way."Rather than focusing on the Court Order s directives the Department has used this as an opportunity to close some of the gaps in administration such as proper record-keeping and completion of registers in order to ensure that there is proper reliable records.Frequency of exercise activities for remand detainees has also been increased from two days to four days a week and those in the hospital section are able to exercise on daily basis the DCS said.In addition the number of pharmacists has been increased to two plus a pharmacist assistant. "This move has tremendously reduced the turnaround time in terms of issuing medication from 48 hours to 24 hours. The opening of a pharmacy in Goodwood Correctional Centre has also decreased the workload for the Pollsmoor pharmacy facility."The department further told MPs that the issue of filthy blankets has been resolved as the Department of Public Works has managed to repair the laundry equipment such as washing machines. However it noted a lasting solution is still needed as these machines were bought in 1975 and have reached the end of lifespan. Pollsmoor management decided to augment this ailing equipment by purchasing eight additional washing machines to be distributed throughout the centre.It reaffirmed its commitment to a safe and humane environment for prisoners.