Former Durbanite Wade Eastwood 45 arranged for the team to meet Cruise and his fellow cast members during the shooting of Mission Impossible 6. We spent about 30 minutes taking photos and catching up. Tom and I also got to hold the winning trophy. We exchanged stories about rugby filming and life in the competitive worlds we all live in. It was a good time with lots of laughter. Tom was extremely impressed with the manners and humbleness of the Springbok Sevens team and it was his pleasure to meet such a great bunch of world class athletes said Eastwood. He said he was patriotic and felt proud of the team and what they had achieved. I wanted to share my passion for my land and what we have achieved as a country with all my work colleagues and friends as I travel the world making films far away from home. I miss home a lot and seeing such a strongly bonded talented bunch of guys from home made my day extra special. When I mentioned that my team had won the world championship and I d love for them to come and visit the set Tom was excited at helping make that happen. He is a true athlete himself and loves any world class athletes that we come into contact with said Eastwood.What also helped is that Cruise s brother-in-law is also from South Africa.Shortly after the visit Blitzbok Werner Kok tweeted: What an experience being on set of the NEW Mission Impossible movie and meeting the legendary Tom Cruise and Simon Pegg such great guys. On the Springboks Facebook page under a picture of the team with Cruise Pegg and Eastwood it read: Blitzboks checklist for Paris 2017. Contest @paris7s play hard and win. Clinch the @worldrugby 7s series. Then meet @tomcruiseofficial_ and hand him Springbok Sevens pennant. Mission Impossible? Nah not when you have @wadeeastwood on your side! #BlitzBOOM #goodguys #blessings .Eastwood has been a stunt performer since the age of 19 and has been a second unit director and stunt coordinator for the past 19 years. He has doubled for most of the leading men in Hollywood including Arnold Schwarzenegger Bruce Willis Pierce Brosnan Daniel Craig and Brad Pitt. Some of the films he has second unit directed and stunt coordinated were Inferno Men in Black 3 Troy Mr &amp; Mrs Smith Salt Hancock and X-Men 3.Eastwood said working with Cruise was a great experience. Every day is a challenge as he pushes himself to the limit as well as those around him. He strives for perfection and good fun entertainment he said.Eastwood who lives in Los Angles and spends a lot of time in the UK and Monaco visits Durban annually over Christmas for two weeks.- TMG Digital/TimesLIVE