A late surge gave the Lions of the North hope in an emotionally-charged finish that saw both benches involved in heated exchanges. Those emotions were expected as there was a lot at stake. For Highlands it was about survival and for the Brazilians it was about securing their place in next year s CAF Champions League.Sundowns achieved their objective even though it was a conciliation after they surrendered the Absa Premiership to Bidvest Wits. As Sundowns fans sang on the far-stand, the home fans left dejected. The people of Tembisa had waited for 14 years to see a club from their hood involved in Premier Division football when Highlands gained promotion last season. But those fans, who came out in their numbers to back their club by filling this 10-000 seater, weren t given much time to enjoy that luxury.The Lions of the North were eager not to disappoint their passionate fan, taking the fight to the African champions but they were just not strong enough. Highlands fought until the end. They didn t drop their heads after the Brazilians went 2-0 up through Themba Zwane and Thabo Nthethe from a penalty spot. Seun Ledwaba offered a quick response. The harder Highlands fought, the louder the local crowd grew. Their voice was almost deafening when Mothobi Mvala scored late. But that goal wasn t enough as Baroka FC won in Cape Town.Highlands find themselves in this position because of their impatient management and porous defence. The club fired the man who took them to the promised land, Allan Freese, after just five matches. Without Freese, the Lions of the North lost the cornerstone of their success a resolute defence that kept 17 clean sheets in the first division. The competition in the elite league and the NFD might be different, but Highlands held Sundowns for close to two hours last season in the Nedbank Cup as a first division to show how strong they were at the back. But it took them 22 matches in all competitions to get their first clean sheet in the Premier Division this season. Freese s replacement, Gordon Igesund, didn t do any better. The club won just two of the 21 league matches he was in charge of.The management once again wielded the axe, promoting Igesund's assistant Thierry Mulonzo and Les Grobler to steady the sinking ship. The pair managed to move Highlands from the automatic relegation spot at the bottom, where they had sat for the most part of this campaign, taking them to 15. The club returned to that unfortunate position on the last day of the league. It s Bakgaga who have a second chance at survival by finishing 15, meaning they will battle it out in the play-offs with Black Leopards and Stellenbosch FC. The Brazilians fans stayed here for a long time, chanting Pitso Mosimane s name. It s a huge change from the impatient bunch that has fired coaches in the past. But it s also a sign of recognition for the work Mosimane has done with the Chloorkop based side, taking them from rich underachievers to conquering the continent. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport