On Sunday her harbour office was broken into and ransacked after criminals broke in through a second-story window.The brazen theft further highlights the crisis situation at Hout Bay harbour one of South Africa's key fishing harbours where criminals have stripped much of the vital infrastructure needed to keep the facility operational. Fire hydrants copper cable signal boxes public toilets and even part of the slipway have all been vandalised or stolen and harbour users have turned to private security to protect their assets.TimesLIVE visited the harbour master's office on Monday where the broken window had been temporarily secured.A visibly deflated Feni-Gela referred queries to the Department of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries. Despite noble intentions it appears she has had little impact on the harbour crime wave that extends to the boats themselves which are targeted for their metal fittings. Suspected criminals also live aboard some of the harbour's derelict vessels.The Department of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries could not be reached for comment and police said they were unaware of Sunday's break-in.The latest incident coincides with news that a R400-million small harbour upgrade project is finally moving ahead following a lengthy delay. The project is managed by the Department of Public Works which has earmarked security as one of the priority areas.Hout Bay harbour stakeholders said crime had deteriorated since April which marked the end of an Extended Public Works Programme security project run by a local businessman. Since they stopped that (the public works security programme) everything went backwards said community leader and ferry operator Gregg Louw. It is high risk. We are sitting with very expensive assets here. Louw said he had lost R15 000 when criminals stole electrical cables he installed to electrify his quayside ferry kiosk. The irony is there were serious serious plans of bringing security in here Louw said adding that there had been a similar spike in crime the last time government terminated the extended public works programme security project.Another harbour business manager said most of the key tenants had turned to private security including CCTV cameras and 24-hour guards.Ferry owner Ken Evans from Circe Launches said it appeared the harbour was being neglected despite ongoing promises to remedy the security situation. He said the break-in at the harbour master office illustrated the broader problem: It's a small incident but it shows there is little respect and security in Hout Bay harbour Evans said.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE