On Monday President Jacob Zuma was booed and prevented from making a speech at a Workers Day event organised by Cosatu in Bloemfontein.This was after the labour federation and the South African Communist Party had - leading up to the event - specifically told the ANC that Zuma would not be welcome to speak at the event.Cosatu affiliates had demanded that Zuma be replaced as the main speaker at its May Day celebrations.The National Health Education &amp; Allied Workers Union wrote to Cosatu on April 21 demanding that they withdraw Zuma and replace him with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as the main speaker.Political analyst Ebrahim Fakir said it was difficult to gauge the impact Cosatu members might have on the ANC elective conference in December.This was because there was no audit of Cosatu members who also happened to be ANC members and who participated in the branches of the party. Fakir said while the ANC had warned that the disruptions could be linked to the ANC leadership race and some members had prematurely announced their leadership preferences the ANC had to decide whether campaigning for the leadership position was open or not. The problem is the inconsistency in applying the rules. Nkosazana-Dlamini Zuma is campaigning Cyril Ramaphosa is campaigning Zweli Mkhize is campaigning Lindiwe Sisulu is campaigning Fakir said.Another political analyst Dumisani Hlophe said the influence of Cosatu on the election of the ANC leader could not be ruled out. The first thing to know is that Cosatu members are first and foremost ANC members Hllophe said.He said the factions in the ANC were beginning to be duplicated within Cosatu and to a minimum degree the South African Communist Party. The faction led by Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini which is aligned to Zuma has been defeated inside Cosatu. Hlophe said the call by the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union a public sector union for the president not to address the workers was a serious statement. Not only are they members of the federation they are an integral part of the state machinery. Another political analyst Ralph Mathekga said Cosatu had no voting block in ANC conferences. However it is well known that Cosatu members are members of the ANC in branches. Cosatu will be lobbying those members in the branches to influence the choice of candidates. Cosatu will not directly distinctly influence the outcome Mathekga said.Mathekga said this was because there were divisions within Cosatu as to who to support.He said although its president supported Zuma other senior leaders supported Ramaphosa.