Singh the reserve team player for Sporting Braga in Portugal was the joint-top scorer on four goals at the Caf U-20 Africa Cup of Nations in Zambia where South Africa finished fourth to reach the U-20 World Cup in South Korea.Amajita kick off their tournament against Japan in Suwon on Sunday and Singh s scoring exploits also finishing top scorer with five goals at the 2016 Cosafa U-20 Cup in Rustenburg will see him earmarked as the player to score for South Africa in Korea.The 19-year-old from Noordgesig in Soweto added to those credentials bagging another goal as Amajita beat Costa Rica 2-1 in a warm-up friendly in Gapyeong on Tuesday. I know people expect me to perform but it s something that I just have to do. As an individual I d like to perform at the World Cup as well as I did in Zambia Singh said. I m not putting any pressure on myself it s the same as when I went into Zambia and into the Cosafa. I know that I will play the football that I can play and give my best to represent the country and to make the country proud. There have inevitably been comparisons in style of play between Singh and Benni McCarthy.McCarthy too was a top scorer at the African U-20 Championship in 1997 and he played at that year's U-20 World Cup. The now retired Bafana Bafana all-time top scorer also played in Portugal with Porto with whom he won the Uefa Champions League. I prefer personally not to see them because Benni is Benni and I am following in my own footsteps Singh said of the comparisons. He s the big man and he s achieved a lot he s a legend for South Africa. So those are big shoes to fit and I m not comparing myself to him. I m just carving out my own footsteps. Amajita are drawn with Asian U-20 champions Japan South American champions Uruguay and European champions Italy surely making them the overwhelming underdogs of Group D. It doesn t intimidate us it motivates us. Because we know we re going into the tournament as the underdogs Singh said. The other teams because they have won and already had success they have pressure on their shoulders because they have to keep their standards. For us we ll just improve our game. We know what we ll be up for. And we ve prepared well. This is something that we ve been waiting for. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport 