Rhonda Slabbert-Barron who runs a healing retreat in the Magaliesberg said Diego Novella who has pleaded not guilty to murdering his girlfriend Gabriela Alban had attended a seven-day colon cleansing and sauna purification retreat after a drug relapse. 'Spiritual guide' says murder accused was full of love and humilityExcited by the treatment he persuaded Alban to rearrange her busy schedule at her Los Angeles PR firm and fly 14 000km to South Africa.He believed Slabbert-Barron s treatment could cure his girlfriend s Lyme disease which had left her dependent on prescription medication. Crime scene photos finally spark emotion in lover accused of Camps Bay murderBut two days before the Novella and Alban were due to travel to the healer s home in July 2015 Alban was found murdered in their Camps Bay hotel room.Slabbert-Barron told defence attorney William Booth on Wednesday that her treatments included cannabis oil a psychotropic drug called Ibogaine and exorcism of demons but Judge Vincent Saldanha was not impressed. She says she deals with the realm of the spiritual I certainly hope your defence is not based in the realm of the spiritual. It better be in the realm of science and fact he told Booth. Explicit photos of Camps Bay murder scene will be made public judge tells defendantSlabbert-Barron said Novella was extremely concerned about Alban s condition and contacted the healer three times on the day of Alban s death.From her first encounter with Novella she could tell he was a man full of love and humility . Immediately from the time I first met him he spoke about Gabriela. He was concerned as she was very ill and in a great deal of pain. The Lyme disease made her body very uncomfortable causing severe pain and inflammation. She was living off pharmaceutical drugs Slabbert-Barron said.On the day of Alban s murder Slabbert Barron said Novella was not himself and could have been possessed. On previous occasions there would always be this excitement and laughter. This time he sounded weird he sounded distant and the way he spoke the words were very drawn out. Slabbert Barron said she and her business partner Ronaldo Bigi had remained in contact with Novella since his arrest and he had gradually returned to the Diego we said goodbye to at the end of his treatment .