Chiefs chairman Motaung admitted the obvious that two seasons under Komphela without a trophy are disappointing for the Soweto giants.However Motaung also indicated that if Chiefs had been intent on firing their current coach they would have begun putting together a succession plan already. Well there s nothing about the coach's position for next year now because we are going to take a complete review of the whole setup Motaung said. Contractually he has another season to go with us. We cannot just decide overnight that he must go."Because if we do that we are working against ourselves. Because if we had that in mind we should have started working towards it so that when the (next)season comes we are somewhere."Because otherwise chopping and changing coaches can hurt you badly. Motaung said the current season had been an improvement on Komphela s first season in 2015-16. Let s face it Steve had a rough time in the first season even though he went to two cup finals."We finished fifth in the league Chiefs chairman said. And now (this season) looking back again we did not perform well in cups and in fact in the league we started very shakily."But along the way we regrouped and got back to our ways. (This year) started again on a very good note with 12 matches unbeaten. Unfortunately even those games most were draws."Some of those draws we should have won. Unfortunately league football is tough because it depends how you start and end."It s not how you finish only. If you accumulate points in the first round the second half becomes easier. All I can say is that in the last five games in terms of performance I thought we played very good football."But unfortunately we were just bugged by these defensive glitches at the end of the game. So the season itself I would say is disappointing because we did not achieve what we wanted to."But performance-wise I think we finished better than last season. Last season this time some of our games our team was tired and you could see we were not going anywhere."But at least this time you could see there was light at the end of the tunnel. Having said that we still need to have a proper review of everything."And once we ve done the review be able to see where things went wrong where we did not do things that we should have done. And probably where we want to go and how we want to go there."And also take stock in the squad. Fourth-placed Chiefs are out of the running for the 2016-17 Absa Premiership title nine points behind leaders Bidvest Wits with two games remaining. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport