This was the assertion of most MPs during their meeting with the SABC on Wednesday when the public broadcaster's top brass presented their corporate plan before the portfolio committee on communications.MPs have now recommended that SABC staffers in particular young women were in need of counselling following the consistent abuse they apparently suffered during executive Hlaudi Motsoeneng s "reign of terror.Lawmakers also lashed out at James Aguma the acting SABC CEO saying he should take personal responsibility and he should resign for his role in the financial crisis that is now plaguing the SABC.Aguma is a regarded as a Motsoeneng ally who was party to some of the SABC's controversial decisions in his original position as CFO.The ANC s Nokuzola Tolashe told the committee that a recent oversight visit to the SABC s Auckland Park offices showed a troubled organisation. I m told the SABC is one of those areas that are quite important it s a national key point. However for me I saw more of a military base than a national key point. I think you need to change that environment because that alone makes people to be unhappy. But also in dealing with the staff issues I m sure you have to take some for counselling. You have to because (from) the majority of very highly educated highly articulate young women at the SABC we got to hear on a daily basis being abused as women said Tolashe.Democratic Alliance MP Phumzile van Damme was more scathing telling Aguma that it was "very strange" for him to continue with business as usual as if he had no role in the SABC's financial ruin. To be deadly honest it s very strange that you re sitting here today presenting matter of factly about the SABC s finances like you weren t directly part of causing the problem " said Van Damme."You re talking about the 90 (percent local) policy and oh no R200 million is gone. You re part of the body that decided on that policy. You are personally responsible sir for the crisis the SABC finds itself in. You should have taken personal responsibility by resigning. Aguma had earlier admitted that SABC flagship station such as Metro FM 5FM Goodhope FM and SABC were fast losing listeners and viewers as a result of the 90% local content policy unilaterally implemented by Motsoeneng last year.Khanyisile Kweyama the chairperson of the SABC interim board said as part of their efforts to fix the national broadcaster they wanted to swiftly fill the position of CEO and COO.She said they also wanted the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) to probe promotions and salary increases that Motsoeneng had apparently dished out during his tenure."The SIU will investigate all promotions appointments and salary increases which were not in compliance with the policies of the corporation as contained in the Public Protector report said Kweyama.- TMG Parliament