That was the warning from KwaZulu-Natal independent political analyst Protas Madlala yesterday. He described the ANC's defeat by the IFP in Nquthu as a "serious indictment that should get the party worried".The ruling party also suffered a defeat in its former stronghold of Beaufort West, in the Western Cape. The DA won almost 57% of the vote in a by-election on Wednesday.The Independent Electoral Commission confirmed yesterday morning that the IFP was victorious in by-elections in Nquthu, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, on Wednesday. The party increased its seats from 15 to 19 in the 33-seat council. The IFP lost power in Nquthu to an ANC/NFP coalition six years ago.The DA and the EFF both retained their seats but will no longer have a direct role in the administration of the municipality now that the IFP has an outright majority. Nquthu and the uMzinyathi district have been in limbo for nearly 10 months after Nquthu failed seven times to elect local leaders. "It's a serious indictment," said Madlala. "I think it should get the ANC worried but you know them, they never got worried about the [local government election] results in August last year. "They went into denial and even now they will be in denial mode, but they were so sure that there was going to be a landslide victory for them."Madlala has warned that the ANC's losses in Nquthu and Beaufort West signalled a trend.The acting leader of the DA in the Western Cape, Bonginkosi Madikizela, said "voters recognise that only the DA continues to deliver better services, cut corruption and create jobs."I don't know how much money they [the ANC] spent campaigning in Nquthu, with all their political heavyweights travelling from Cape Town and Pretoria to do door-to- door campaigning there." Asked what he thought the ANC could have done better to defeat the IFP in its former stronghold, Madlala said: "They threw in all their heavyweights and what else could they have done?"I would be worried if I were the ruling party. But the people have spoken and they have said 'ANC, we don't like you.'"[Bearing in mind] all the resources that they have, this is a serious indictment but I am hesitant to use the current results and say they will reflect 2019."