That s after Minister of Sports and Recreation Thulas Nxesi rescinded a ban on hosting for mega-events imposed on rugby last April by his predecessor Fikile Mbalula. Nxesi made the decision based on the outcomes of a revision of a report from the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) on Sports Transformation.The original EPG reports based on its findings in the years 2014/15 said that rugby had failed on two of 13 barometers set out. After a 12 month review period rugby along with cricket and netball which were similarly punished by Mbalula have met the criteria laid out by the EPG.Nxesi had no hesitation in throwing government s full formal backing behind the RWC 2023 bid which was severely hamstrung by Mbalula s dictate. I would like to congratulate rugby cricket and netball on their improved scores you were clearly willing to walk the extra mile. Their right to bid for and host major sporting events which was revoked before is hereby immediately reinstated. But we would like to re-emphasise our expectations for sporting federations to take charge and provide leadership at school and club levels. Mark Alexander president of SA Rugby said from a World Rugby meeting in Tokyo: This is great news and a tribute to the work that the sport has been doing in recent years to stay in tune and relevant to modern South Africa. We can now put the finishing touches to what we believe will be an outstanding bid to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup. We have kept the ministry up to speed with our thinking and state of preparation throughout the suspension and continue to enjoy an excellent relationship with our sports leaders. The EPG Report measures South African sports federations on a number of national imperatives to provide greater access and opportunity to sport for all. The report examines sports from school level to elite level on and off the field under demographics performance governance access preferential procurement and employment equity. Ireland and France are also bidding to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup tournament.The winning bidder will be named by World Rugby on 15 November. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport