 I know the address Mosimane said. It s just on the freeway. I think (we will go and fetch it). We will strengthen the team. Trust me. We know where we had problems. The Brazilians biggest problem this season was juggling domestic and continental commitments.Sundowns played 54 matches in all competitions after lifting the league in May last year.They traveled across the continent and even went to Japan for the Fifa Club World Cup without much of a rest.Bidvest Wits who pipped the Brazilians in the league race played 43 games in the same period and only made three trips outside the country.But even with that workload Sundowns pushed the Clever Boys until the second last game.Mosimane congratulated Gavin Hunt for giving Wits the league for the first time in the club s 95-year history.But the African Coach of the Year argued that it wasn't a fair fight because the two clubs didn't have a similar workload.While Sundowns made the group stage of the CAF Champions League last year and this year Wits crashed out early on both instances. If I run the comrades an ultra-marathon and then wena you wait for me at the halfway mark and start there it s not a fair fight Mosimane said. It s like being in iron man where you swim run and cycle."You can t wait for me after I swim and you didn t and then we cycle and say that you beat me. No! Run the same race with me and then we can compare."We are playing (Esperance in the Champions League) on Friday. Where are the other people? Resting." Mosimane continued: Last year where were they? Resting."I was in cold conditions in Japan in December last year. Where were other people? Playing golf and taking selfies on the beach."So you want to compare? You must run the same race as me. You can t do only this part (while I am doing everything) and say that you are great."Okay you are great in this part. But I swam 5km while you weren t doing anything and then you re happy that you beat me in cycling and then you say that you re good."I am still going on by the way while people are resting. It s unbelievable."We have been doing this for two years in a row and we will be in the Champions League for four years in a row. That s big. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport