This is the forecast by Stanford University economist Tony Seba. His report, Rethinking Transportation 2020-2030, is causing spasms of anxiety in the established industries.Seba's premise is that people will stop driving altogether. They will switch to self-drive electric vehicles (EVs) that are 10 times cheaper to run than fossil-based cars, with a near-zero marginal cost of fuel and an expected life span of 1.6 million kilometres.Only nostalgics will cling to car ownership. The rest will adapt to vehicles on demand. It will become harder to find a petrol station, spares, or anybody to fix the 2000 moving parts that bedevil the internal combustion engine. Dealers will disappear.Cities will ban human drivers. There will be a "mass stranding of existing vehicles".It is a twin "death spiral" for big oil and big car makers, with ugly implications for some companies unless they adapt.The price of crude will fall to $25 a barrel. Most forms of shale and deep-water drilling will no longer be viable. Scotland, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and Venezuela will be in trouble.It is an existential threat to the car industry. They will face a choice between manufacturing EVs in a brutal low-profit market, or reinventing themselves as self-drive companies like Uber.They are in the wrong business. The next generation of cars will be "computers on wheels". Google, Apple and Foxconn have the disruptive edge, and are going in for the kill.The shift, according to Seba, is driven by technology, not climate policies. Market forces are bringing it about with a speed and ferocity that governments could never hope to achieve."We are on the cusp of one of the fastest, deepest, most consequential disruptions of transportation in history," Seba said. "Internal combustion engine vehicles will enter a vicious cycle of increasing costs."The "tipping point" will arrive over the next two to three years as EV battery ranges surpass 320km and electric car prices in the US drop to $30,000. By 2022 the low-end models will be down to $20,000. After that, the avalanche will sweep all before it."By 2025 anything that moves on wheels will be electric, globally," Seba said."Our research and modelling indicate that the $10-trillion annual revenues in the existing vehicle and oil supply chains will shrink dramatically," Seba said."Certain high-cost countries, companies and fields will see their oil production entirely wiped out. Exxon-Mobil, Shell and BP could see 40% to 50% of their assets become stranded."While his timing may be off by a few years, there is little doubt about the general direction.India plans to phase out all petrol and diesel cars by 2032. Prime Minister Mahendra Modi has called for a mix of subsidies, car-pooling and caps on fossil-based cars. The goal is to cut pollution and break reliance on imported oil.China is moving in parallel, pushing for 7 million electric vehicles by 2025, enforced by a minimum quota for "new energy" vehicles that shifts the burden for the switch onto manufacturers.This is all happening much faster than Saudi Arabia and Opec had assumed. The cartel's World Oil Outlook last year dismissed electric vehicles as a fringe curiosity that would make little difference to ever-rising global demand for oil.Saudi Arabia's actions suggest otherwise. It is hedging its bets by selling off chunks of the state oil giant Saudi Aramco to fund diversification away from oil.Opec, Russia and the US oil-exporting states are now caught in a squeeze and will probably be forced to extend output caps into 2018 to stop prices falling. Shale fracking in the US is now so efficient that it may cap oil prices in a range of $45 to $55 until the end of the decade. By then the historic window will be closing.Seba's point is that multiple technological trends are combining in a perfect storm. The simplicity of the EV model is breathtaking. The TeslaS has 18 moving parts, 100 times fewer than a combustion engine car."Maintenance is essentially zero. That is why Tesla is offering infinite-kilometre warranties. You can drive it to the moon and back and they will still warranty it," Seba said.Self-drive "vehicles on demand" will be running at much higher levels of daily use than today's cars and will last for up to 1.6million kilometres each.EVs are four times more efficient than petrol or diesel cars, which lose 80% of their power in heat. What changes the equation is the advent of electric models with the acceleration and performance of a Lamborghini costing up to 10 times less to buy, and at least 10 times less to run."The electric drive-train is so much more powerful. Petrol and diesel cars cannot possibly compete," Seba said. The parallel is what happened to film cameras - and to Kodak - once digital rivals hit the market. It was swift and brutal."You can't compete with zero marginal costs," he said.There will be losers. Whole countries will spin into crisis. The world's geopolitical order will be reshaped almost overnight. But humanity as a whole should enjoy an enormous welfare gain. - The Daily Telegraph