That's because for the most part, companies are not legally compelled to take back goods - at all - which are not defective. The Consumer Protection Act's six-month warranty - in terms of which you can return a product for your choice of a refund, replacement or repair - applies mainly to defective goods.But there are some notable exceptions to the "no recourse unless it's defective" rule.THE HARD SELLIf you made the purchase or agreed to a contract - such as an insurance policy or a cellphone deal - as a result of a direct marketing approach, you have the benefit of an escape in the form of a five-business day cooling-off period. In that time you can cancel the deal - in writing - and get a refund of anything you have paid for. Direct marketing is when you didn't initiate the transaction, the company did - by waving you over to try out a product at a kiosk in a shopping centre, calling you with a telesales pitch or inviting you to attend a presentation, for example.The product or service does not need to be defective and you don't have to give a reason - you simply get to change your mind.But don't expect to hear about this get-out-of-deal-free thing from a commission-earning sales agent.BUYING BY CLICKThe Electronic Communications and Transactions Act entitles you to cancel - without reason or penalty - a transaction you entered into online within seven days, but you have to pay the cost of returning the goods to the company.DELIVERY GONE WRONGIf a company agrees to deliver a product you have bought from them at a specific time and gets either the address or the time wrong, you have the right to cancel the deal for a full refund.And if you order a product from a catalogue, showroom or exhibition floor and the item that you receive some weeks later differs from what you saw, you have the right to cancel the deal for a refund. (Tip: Take a photo of the showroom item as proof.)THE WRONG FITThere is a big difference between something being a bad fit for you and not fit for purpose. You can't take back a pair of jeans or shoes because you decide, when you get home, that they are too tight. But if a product claims to be able to perform a function and it doesn't, you can return it for a refund.Section 55 of the CPA states that "the consumer has a right to expect that the goods are reasonably suitable for the specific purpose that the consumer has indicated" and consistent with the way in which they are marketed, packaged and displayed.Here's an example:Sheila Deiner of Gonubie in Eastern Cape bought Homemark's FatFreezer product from Hemingways Mall in November. The salesman did not caution her that the elasticised belt might not fit around her middle, neither did the packaging indicate any measurement limitations. It is also not the sort of product a consumer is able to "try on".Deiner never got to find out the product's claim - that the cold would break down fat cells, resulting in a "more toned and sleek appearance" - was true, because the elasticated belt wouldn't fit around her 105cm waist.So she returned the product to the store - within the CPA's six-month warranty period - but was told she had no recourse."The salesman had the cheek to tell me that people bigger than me had bought the product and it worked for them. I find that impossible because if I couldn't fit the belt around my waist, I don't see people bigger than me getting it around their leg!"I took up the case with Homemark and, after first insisting that Deiner was entitled only to an exchange, and a refund was "stretching it", the company agreed to refund her the R1000 she spent on the FatFreezer - and to amend the packaging to include the maximum measurements the product caters for.So there you have it. This would be a useful column to cut out and keep - cut and paste for digital readers - for future reference.CONTACT WENDY: E-mail: consumer@knowler.co.za Twitter: @wendyknowler #Shelfie SPRAY SAFE: Recent exposure of brutal attacks on South African women have led to a run on pepper spray products, say retailers. 'We've had women coming in to ask about the sprays, but also fathers, boyfriends and husbands,' one said. Before buying, decide whether you want to go for a direct spray, in which case you'd have to be very accurate under attack, or a 'fogger'-type spray which may affect you as well. Check the label - a 10% concentration of capsicum is the gold standard.