First penned by the investor Peter Thiel in 2011, the words "We wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters", are often quoted by those who groan that the world's brightest minds are focused not on the major challenges of our age, but by superficial social media apps. Order your flying car now from R4.2 millionThiel was an early investor in Facebook, so his swipe at social media rings hollow. But the feeling that the future has let us down does not. The flying car we were promised never happened.Until, perhaps, now. Last week, Uber's chief product officer, Jeff Holden, laid out a striking vision for the future, in which ordering a trip in a flying car is as easy as hailing a taxi."Flying cars have been promised for decades but are happening now," Holden said. "We are working to make 'push a button, get a flight' a reality."Holden revealed plans to test an "urban aviation system". Trials will take place in Dallas, Texas, and Dubai from 2020.Holden announced partnerships with five aircraft firms. This year Uber hired a Nasa veteran as its "director of engineering for aviation" and published a 97-page white paper on the feasibility of flying cars."We're turning it into something we think will be a daily phenomenon," Holden said. Not only did he promise that ordering a flying car will be easy, he said it would also be cheaper, faster and more environmentally-friendly than driving.Uber imagines that one day in the future, commuters will be able to pull out their smartphone, open the Uber app and press a button to order a flight. Passengers will be picked up at a station either at the top of a building or at special ports on the ground, and be transported comfortably via an electric vehicle to a destination in a matter of minutes.These "flying cars" will not look anything like automobiles, but a hybrid between helicopters and jets, taking off and landing vertically before flying quietly like a plane. At first, they will be flown by licensed pilots, with the price of a journey equivalent to what it costs to take an Uber car today. One day, however, they will fly themselves, sending prices tumbling .Holden waxed lyrical about how "UberAir" could save the billions of hours spent commuting or wasted in traffic jams, remove carbon dioxide emissions currently created by cars, and "eliminate parking". The vehicles would be quiet and at least twice as safe as a car, he pledged.Silicon Valley can be over-optimistic at the best of times, but to many, this looked like a new level of hubris.Flying cars have been promised since the early 20th century. In 1926, Henry Ford unveiled the Flivver, hailed as the "everyman's aircraft" until production plans were cancelled when a test flight killed its pilot. Flying vehicles have been promised to the public with clockwork-like consistency, but similar levels of success since then. Is today any different?According to Zach Lovering, it is. Lovering is one of the executives running Vahana, a project from Airbus to develop a self-flying personal aircraft. He says increased urbanisation, as well as advanced technology, means flying cars can deliver this time."Fifty-six percent of people now live in cities," he says. "A century ago the solution was for urban transport to go underground, but the problem has once again become too big to ignore. Technologies such as lightweight batteries, efficient motors, and powerful computers make looking to the sky a reality."Well-financed technology firms are showing a growing interest in travel. Companies like Elon Musk's electric car-maker Tesla have become shareholder darlings, and Google founder Larry Page is personally funding two flying car start-ups, one of which unveiled a prototype last week.In the real world, flying car companies may be met with a slightly more hostile response. Vehicles will have to go through a long and arduous process of receiving approval from regulators, and rules about urban airspace must be rewritten. The Sunday Telegraph 