According to the residents the informal settlement has existed for more than 25 years with no improvements. Community leader Noel Ngobeni said they were tired of lies from the government."We are here to face the promises our municipality has made. They promised us land we want to see the land that they claim to have bought for us. We want to see improvements I have been living here for over 24 years I started living here when I was still in high school. Now I have children who have finished school but are still living in the same situation " said Ngobeni.A 34-year-old resident and domestic worker Emily Thobela said: "I want to have my own house. I want the government to give us land water and electricity. I live with four of my children in a one-roomed house. The boys are 25 and 15 and it is difficult when they have to bath we have to go outside for them and when the females bath they should move for us as well. This situation makes me feel embarrassed and bad. We voted for the councillor now that he is in power and has moved from our informal settlement he has forgotten us. I mean about 20 of us share a toilet that does not have running water while some people do not even have access to a toilet.""My family and I use our neighbour's toilet but if we cannot we go to the fields to help ourselves what can we do " added another protesting resident Ayanda Mbali.Resident Elton Musekwa said he lives in a two-roomed shack with two children. "I have been living here since 1998 and there are no streets no electricity and there are no toilets I live in a two-roomed shack that I have to pay R200 per month for and I work sometimes when I can and it is hard to make ends meet in that situation " said Musekwa.The community's anger rose when Ekurhuleni MMC for Human Settlements Lesiba Mpya visited them without the metro s executive mayor Mzwandile Masina."We want the Mayor tomorrow chanted the community."We have bought land for the community already however the opposition has said the land is not suitable and the people have said they do not want informal settlements as they will devalue their properties. We have won the battle as we have scientific information that states that that land is suitable for living. We will start moving the community in July " said Mpya.- TMG Digital/SowetanLIVE