The corruption busting body made the announcement during parliament s standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) on Tuesday.The ACTT was established in 2010 as a multi-departmental body to fast track high profile corruption cases and is co-chaired by the heads of the Hawks and National Prosecuting Authority (NPA).ACTT co-chairperson and acting Hawks head Yolisa Matakata told the committee that they were dealing with a few cases that are in the public space including state capture. I d like to again raise and make sure it is understood that we are working on these matters in what is popularly referred to as state capture. We are investigating these matters in consultation with the NPA although it s cases and matters opened by various persons across the country. I would like to assure the committee and the country that we are doing these investigations said Matakata.She also told MPs that the task team was also working on what she referred to as the Nkandla investigation . As a collective we are investigating this matter where there are prosecutors that are looking into the matter. These investigations are taking place between us said Matakata.The high level ATCC delegation which appeared before Scopa included national director of public prosecutions Shaun Abrahams SA Revenue Services head Tom Moyane and Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) head Robert McBride.Abrahams said with respect to the state capture there were seven legs to the investigation . Only one of these legs are currently the subject of investigation by the ACTT. That is the Tegeta/Eskom related matter said Abrahams.Tegeta is the Gupta-linked Eskom coal supplier which was at the centre of Madonsela s State of Capture report in 2016.Abrahams said the other legs of the investigation are the subject of investigation by the office of serious economic crimes that falls under the ambit of the Hawks. On the Nkandla matter Abrahams said there were five referrals by the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). A (special commercial crimes unit) prosecutor declined to prosecute in respect of four of these matters. The remaining matter was the subject of further investigation by the police. I ve requested the head of the SCCU to review those four cases. I was somewhat concerned that these matters can be looked at in isolation and had to be investigated as a collective said Abrahams.Abrahams said current Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane referred Madonsela s report to the National Prosecuting Authority.Committee chairperson Themba Godi said Scopa will grill Eskom when it appears before the committee next week.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE