The Stormers lost 57-24 to the Crusaders and 57-14 to the Highlanders in the past two weeks but Fleck has vowed that their attacking approach won t be shelved in an attempt to keep the score tidy against the defending champions in Wellington this Friday.The Stormers attacking stats make for good reading.They are third in terms of ball carrying metres gained fourth in line breaks (58) and fourth in tries scored (38).But defensively they have been frail especially over the past two weeks which has seen them concede 17 tries on tour. The players are disappointed with recent results but there is no point in dwelling on the past Fleck said from Wellington. We have a job to do and have to get up for a tough challenge against the best attacking side in the tournament. The players are young and keen to learn and willing to keep fighting. We have been playing with courage the whole season and we are not about to change now. Our approach will be the same because we haven t bottled up. In the past we would have become conservative and just defended after two heavy losses."But we are not going to do that because we are trying to become a better team overall and we will keep trying to score tries. We have built some pressure on opponents through continuity in the past few weeks and we will keep taking that approach."There is no point in trying to bottle up players such as Damian Willemse and EW Viljoen. There is no better place to learn about rugby than in NZ against the teams we have and will face. Willemse was one of four replacements called up on Sunday after locks Pieter-Steph du Toit (knee) and Eben Etzebeth (calf) prop JC Janse van Rensburg (torn bicep) and flyhalf Kurt Coleman (torn deltoid ligament) departed.Willemse and flank Rynhardt Elstadt will only arrive on Tuesday due to delays from the recent SA Airways strike while centre Juan de Jongh and prop Caylib Oosthuizen made it to NZ on Monday.Captain Siya Kolisi who injured a shoulder against the Highlanders has responded positively to treatment and should be fit for the clash in Wellington. Everyone is in contention for selection this weekend which includes the four guys who have flown out this week Fleck said. They will add a lot of energy and Juan [De Jongh] brings a lot of experience to the squad. We had 13 new tourists in the squad which is a lot and there are another two new comers in Caylib and Damian. So guys like Juan and Rynhardt are essential is adding experience. One of the biggest worries as a coach is getting into the emotional state of the players."We have been honest in our feedback with the players but we are also staying positive in terms of keeping the spirits high. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport