Cassper's much anticipated third studio album, Thuto, dropped on Friday morning and featured a number of tracks where the rapper opened up about his love life and challenges.TshisaLIVE gave the album a listen and found a number of striking revelations.Here are just five:His mother battled with suicidal thoughts"The other day my mother told me she was suicidal. (This is) the same soldier who told me to read the Bible," he rapped on the album's opening track, Confused.He was embarrassed by his poverty growing upSpeaking about his upbringing on the track Bentley Coupe, Cassper revealed that he used to be embarrassed to bring his friends home as a kid because there was hardly ever any food in the house."I was always visiting n*ggas. I never hosted. I was always too embarrassed that we didn't have enough toast," Cassper rapped on Bentley Coupe.He has regrets over "manipulating" Boity"I started giving the side b*tchs your side of the bed. That sh*t was so disrespectful and I don't have an excuse. I look at myself in the mirror like,' Dawg, what happened to you? You told this woman you loved her and then you promised her joy. She needed a man and you acted like a boy. Manipulated her mind. I got you confused. It's time I admit I wasn't ready for you," Cassper rapped about his failed relationship with Boity, on the track I Wasn't Ready for You.He's still bitter towards one of his other exesOn Destiny, Cassper opened up about the troubles of being in a relationship and revealed his anger about an ex "partying with his enemy" and leaving him for a businessman"Now you out here leaving me for a businessman. How was I supposed to believe that you were genuine? Does he open the door for you, like I do? Do you think he would risk it all, like I do? Do you think that he would wife you?" he rapped.He scored a half-a-billion-rand deal with AG MobileCassper has never been shy to speak about his riches and the rapper did it again when he casually claimed to have scored half a billion rand from his deal with mobile phone company AG Mobile."Pineapple C roc when we celebrating. AG Mobile half-a-billion from association," Cassper rapped on We Living Good.