The bombing is being treated "as a terrorist incident".In an official statement released on the Greater Manchester Police's Twitter feed the force said:"At about 10.33pm...we received reports of an explosion at the Manchester Arena in the city centre. It was at the conclusion of an Ariana Grande concert. Currently we have 19 people confirmed dead and around 50 people injured " said Chief Constable Ian Hopkins.He continued: "We are currently treating this as a terrorist incident until we know otherwise."Sir Richard Leese leader of Manchester City Council said: "This is an absolutely horrifying incident and our thoughts are with everyone affected especially those who have lost loved ones or been injured and traumatised."If it is confirmed this was a terrorist attack it is a monstrous act but also a deeply futile one. Manchester is a proud strong city and we will not allow terrorists who seek to sow fear and division to achieve their aims."We give heartfelt thanks to our emergency services for their response and council staff are doing all they can to support."WATCH: Two explosions force fans to evacuate arena Here is the latest statement released by police.Latest statement on incident at Manchester Arena @CCIanHopkins pic.twitter.com/GEABqAk5rr G M Police (@gmpolice) May 23, 2017Latest statement on incident at Manchester Arena @CCIanHopkins pic.twitter.com/GEABqAk5rrA video clip showed panicked concert goers scrambling after a loud bang was heard inside the venue. #Manchester pic.twitter.com/LzMioNLp0J Ariana tweeted: broken. from the bottom of my heart, i am so so sorry. i don't have words. broken from the bottom of my heart, i am so so sorry. i don't have words.According to Perez Hilton.com the singer is "in hysterics" after the concert, especially over the fact that young people went out to see her perform. Grande was not physically hurt, and left the stage before the explosions occurred.Celebrities conveyed their condolences on twitter.My thoughts and prayers are with all those affected by this horrific act in Manchester. We need to do better. We need to LOVE ONE ANOTHER.My heart&amp;prayers go out to everyone who was @ArianaGrande concert This is unbelievable! We stand with you Manchester #HopingForBetterDaysMy thoughts and prayers are with @ArianaGrande and everyone who was hurt at the concert in Manchester.. what is happening to the world..My heart is completely and utterly broken. I am sending all of my thoughts, prayers and love to @ArianaGrande &amp; all affected in ManchesterOur prayers and strengh to the victims and their families involved in this tragedy in Manchester. Stay strong. @ArianaGrandeMY PRAYERS GO OUT TO PPL OF MANCHESTER HAD SPECIAL TIMES THERE FROM YOUTH &amp; BEYONDTearing up imagining innocent concert goers losing their lives.. praying for everyone and all #arianators.Stunned by the news coming in from the UK my thoughts are with the fans and families at Ariana s Manchester show. Awful