But it will take more than words for Baxter to win over everyone as the decision by the South African Football Association (Safa) to appoint the Brit has divided opinions.The association settled for Baxter after money became an issue in the protracted search where they couldn t tie down the front runners Carlos Queiroz two-time Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) winner Herve Renard and Hugo Broos the Belgian who helped Cameroon become African kings after 13-barren years.Baxter doesn t have an international football CV as impressive as those three men. What he has over them though is a good understanding of South African football.That understanding has prepared him to deal with the doubts and criticism that surrounded his appointment just like it was the case in his first stint as Bafana coach and when he returned to manage Kaizer Chiefs. If I worry about all the negativity that people could throw up what if this what if that then that diminishes my ability to do the job properly Baxter said. I have to believe in the team. I ve got to believe in the process and I ve got to believe that we will be successful."There are a million reasons why people will suggest that we won t be successful. But if I listen to that then we won t be successful."Henry Ford said he who thinks he can and he who thinks he can t both men are right. I want to be the one who thinks we can. Bafana s trip to Uyo to take on Nigeria on June 10 in the 2019 Afcon qualifiers will be a perfect opportunity for Baxter to silence his detractors and set a good foundation against the old enemy.He will announce the squad for that match on Thursday.Baxter has hinted that he plans to build his team around warriors like Itumeleng Khune and Dean Furman.The Afcon qualifiers will be Baxter s true test as Shakes Mashaba has already laid a solid foundation in the 2018 World Cup qualifiers.Bafana have picked up four points in the World Cup qualifiers in their first two matches after drawing with Burkina Faso and beating Senegal.If they can beat Cape Verde back-to-back and don t lose against Senegal in Dakar they will stand a good chance of going to Russia. Winning everyone over can t be done in five minutes Baxter said. I can t do that let s say before the Nigeria game. I ll do that when I am in the seat and have a little bit of time there."It will take me going around visiting the clubs finding out what they need from their association and outlining what we want from them."Hopefully we can also discuss football and see what we have in common. Go to the PSL and talk about the schedule. "I know as a club coach where the beef is so that we can try to align our game with the schedule so that we can get a better hand dealt to us."It s those things that I will need to do. Talk to you guys (the media) If we can share our plans a little bit more instead of having he said she said we would all be on the same page. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport