A packed crowd of thousands of Emmanuel Macron's supporters had queued for hours, passing through three security searches to gain entrance to the courtyard where Macron was due to address the gathering.Not even the threat of rain could dampen their spirits. As they waited patiently, they sang La Marseillaise, the national anthem, and the campaign song of En Marche! (On the Move), the centrist political movement Macron has built from scratch in little more than a year.Herv Le Foll, a marketing and communications executive, said he hoped the election of France's youngest president would mark "a turning point". Le Foll, 47, who voted for the outgoing Socialist president, Fran ois Hollande, in the last election in 2012, said: "Our generation saw the Berlin wall come down and we were joyful. Then we saw the rise of the Front National and we were afraid. Now I'm relieved and I'm glad there's good news. We'll celebrate with champagne later, but I just hope he won't disappoint us like Hollande did."Many in the crowd acknowledged that Macron risks becoming a lame duck without a parliamentary majority and said they hoped French voters would back En Marche! in the legislative elections next month.The party is very much in the image of Macron himself and, like him, it is the first time many of its candidates are running for public office. But the movement has no experience of fighting what will, in effect, be 577 micro-elections in each parliamentary constituency.Mathieu Leveque, 19, is a volunteer who campaigned for Macron and will now work for the parliamentary elections."This is a fantastic night. For weeks I've been getting up at 4am to put up posters," said Leveque, a business student. "We've put our hearts into combating the Front National, its intolerance and insane economic policies."Emmanuel Langlet, 40, a financial consultant, said: "I was attracted by Macron's youth and his optimistic message. We weren't sure if Marine Le Pen was going to pull off a last-minute victory. Now I'm happy that this will give a good image of France in the world, but I know the job is only just beginning. I think French voters will be intelligent enough to give their new president a majority in the national assembly."France has taken a step into the political unknown. At 39, Macron is its youngest head of state since Napoleon and the first president from outside an established party in more than a century.A former Rothschild banker, he served as Hollande's economy minister but lacks a parliamentary power base. Without a majority or the support of a coalition, he may struggle to fulfil his promises to reform rigid labour laws, slash business taxes and cut the bloated public sector and public spending.If En Marche! fails to win enough seats, he will be at the mercy of unwieldy parliamentary coalitions. His reforms may be blocked or watered down as he balances competing demands from allies on the left and right. Another challenge will be to reach out to La France Profonde, the "forgotten France" of small, impoverished towns and villages that have been left behind as industries die and farmers struggle to make ends meet.If he fails, the populist wave led by the Front National will certainly surge again. "In many ways this is the last throw of the dice, the last time someone from the middle ground will have a chance to fix problems like high unemployment," said Florence Galichet, 50, a webmaster. "I hope he'll manage it."Macron will also have to pick a prime minister and cabinet. He has set himself the daunting task of bringing in figures from the left and the right, and from civil society, which is bound to entail tortuous negotiations.One stumbling block in Macron's efforts to woo senior political figures may be his insistence that they must leave their parties and run for the parliamentary elections under his banner.The candidates of the two mainstream parties, the Socialists and the centre-right Republicans, crashed out of the presidential race in the first round of voting. They are weakened and divided, but still hoping to use their political apparatus and networks of local support to stage a comeback.Macron has announced that he has picked his prime minister but has not specified who it is. Xavier Bertrand, 52, president of the northern France region, is said to be his preferred choice, but is reportedly balking as his centre-right party, the Republicans, are fielding candidates in all constituencies for the parliamentary elections.Another frontrunner is Fran ois Bayrou, the centrist leader of the MoDem (Democratic Movement) party and a former presidential candidate who backed Macron early in the campaign. Jean-Yves Le Drian, the outgoing defence minister in Hollande's government, could also take a key portfolio.Macron has promised new legislation to clean up French politics after a campaign bogged down by sleaze and with widespread distrust of politicians.His pledge to bypass parliament and push through decrees within months to "simplify" France's restrictive labour code is likely to set him on collision course with unions and lead to street protests. - The Daily Telegraph