If there is a friendship that was the envy of many and truly beautiful to watch, it has to be that of Somizi Mhlongo and Bonang Matheba, and it has been equally devastating to watch the pieces chip away.Both Bonang and Somizi are stars in their own rights, boasting accolades after accolades, and, perhaps, that is part of the clash of egos we are now being exposed to. Two big personalities don t usually work as they fight for dominance, sometimes even unconsciously. For me, that was the first thing about their friendship that I marveled at. They defined a power couple: two ambitious people, taking no prisoners when it comes to getting their paper and slaying on everything.It wasn t supposed to work but it didSo after a couple of years of holding my breath hoping they didn t break up, I got used to the idea of them probably ending up as old-age friendship goals, dining on some private island in their golden years. And sharing all their snaps on the new Instagram.Then they broke up. And, no, I was not okay.I m still not okay and I will probably will never find inner piece where this matter is concerned.They were the definition of Power Couple They are both influential and they know it. Individually, they both boast a large following and inspire thousands of people on a daily basis. I always felt that they complimented each other in terms of experience, perspective and protection. Allow me to explain.Even though they are both famous, they are gifted in different fields and entered the industry at different eras. I do not know the kind of conversations they had, but I can imagine that the experiences Somizi had provided Bonang with a point of reference when dealing with being in the public eye. And I m almost certain that Bonang also provided Somizi with a different outlook on some things as friendships go. Pictures and articles may lie but dates hardly do and we (Twitter CSI and I) can confirm that Somizi has been there for Bonang through a lot of internet troll attacks, defending her at every turn.History will also attest to the fact that Bonang has also publicly protected Somizi. Both of them knew how powerful and perhaps dangerous the other may become should the tables turn, but they made it work, until they didn t.They were always crowd pullers because most people recognised that they were actually pulling a mission impossible with such finesse! Also, they helped each to attract new target audiences in terms of their fans. Bonang was not the unapproachable ice queen and Somizi was not that loud and ghetto diva . Because of their friendship, other sides of them were exposed and we (the fans) just loved them even more.Somizi shared in a recent interview with Anele that he loved Bonang too much and I can understand why. In a friendship like theirs you have to go big or go home. Although Bonang hasn t really addressed the matter, close sources have shared that she still loves Somizi.#BaecationBuddiesWho can forget the international and local vacations they took together. Those two could be walking down the street in some village we didn t know existed but they would still be camera ready and slaying without doubt. They were just living their best lives together and they gave us goals.#LifeGoalsOn100Endorsement deal after endorsement deal, new shows, more magazine covers and so many other great things happened in their lives while they were an item. After due credit to God, I believe their influence and support for each other was a factor in their good fortune . They showed us that hard work pays, that timing counts and those real friends matter.I have seen many Instagram posts (that hardly ever make it to either Somizi or Bonang s page by the way) of young girls and boys sharing how this power couple have inspired them to go get that degree, that record deal or that loan for a business. I mean, you can t make up such inspiration, you just can t.Why we ll always care!That break-up was unexpected and we never got closure (but we also don t really want closure because we would much rather have a reunion). It s like watching your parents go through a rough divorce but you don t really know the core reason and no one will tell you, so you rely on stompies instead. That s why no matter how crazy a headline sounds, as long as it s about Somizi and Bonang, I ll probably latch on to it because I want to know! Bonang won t address anything and from what Somizi has said, things don t look so great. And that is just sad. I mean, what did we ever do to them to deserve their separation?Personally, never mind my data, I feel like I have invested so many emotions into this friendship that we deserve something. Anything. Will I ever stop caring? No! Besides, we didn t even get the chance to come up with a name for them. #Bomizi. #Somang #SomB #YougirlsB&amp;S