The new Bafana coach said he does not view losing against Japan (2-1) and Italy (2-0) as a disaster from South Africa s U-20s in South Korea. I think that the junior national teams have started on that developmental journey. And I think we have seen some great shoots coming through. But I think it is early Baxter said this week. To reach a World Cup is not bad. And I think a lot for the players will benefit greatly from being there. I think there are some great players and there are some interesting players. To get from where they are now to the senior national team is a big journey in anybody s book. I had the England U-20s. There are some of those who are not even playing they didn t even make Bradford City let alone the senior national team. I think now if we do our job properly we build that bridge for them. So that every young South African sees clearly Where do I go after that . We ve got to capture those players give them a reason to dream and hopefully we can help them. Baxter said Amajita had shown that there are players who are future senior team material by reaching the U-20 World Cup. I don t think it s a disaster that we lose to a Japan and an Italy. I think there are some interesting players who are going to come out of there. Just as an example I watched England smash Argentina 3-0. I read an Argentinean news report that Newell Old Boys had pulled five players and the Argentina coach said That s OK I ll just get my development programme into five new players . I looked at Argentina and I looked at England. England were boring they did everything right to win the game got a lucky penalty and won 3-0. And you think England are doing well their development programme must be working . But I couldn t see one England player that I thought That s a super talent . I saw four or five Argentineans who I did. And hopefully that s what s going to happen with South Africa. Japan beat us but I want to look at the South Africans and think He s going to be a player . Baxter was speaking as he announced his first Bafana squad on Thursday for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Nigeria in Uyo on June 10.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport