Without healthcare, jobs or basic services, about 3000 Angolan-born men call home the town of Pomfret in a far-flung northern corner of South Africa, fringing the Kalahari desert.Dilapidated buildings crumble at the side of the town's sun-baked main road, water and power are cut off, and the asbestos factory that once sustained the region was abandoned long ago.Former soldier Jose Lourenco, 69, a black Angolan, pointed to yellowing photos of "32 Battalion" - his elite and much-feared South African unit - in action in Angola against communist government forces."We didn't fear anyone, we were the best unit in the world," he said in his shabby home, one of the few still standing in the town.In the 1980s, while still living in Angola, he joined the apartheid-era unit that had been formed to fight communism across southern Africa, including in Namibia and Zambia.It was a cause that meant taking up arms against his mother country, but Lourenco remembers that time with pride."The government should tell us what we did wrong? Why are they punishing us like this?" he said, speaking in Angolan Portuguese."There was no apartheid in 32 Battalion. Where the whites drank, we drank, where the whites slept, we slept," said Lourenco as he gestured to the unit's uniform patches, emblazoned with a stylised black and white buffalo.When the Cold War ended, and as Pretoria ceased its shadowy regional wars against supposed communist threats, 32 Battalion was relocated to Pomfret with the promise that its members would be integrated into the regular South African army.Life was initially good in the extreme northern outpost."Here there was a club where the senior men partied. There was even a ballroom," said Makamba Tchimoco, the son of a former battalion member.But the whirlwind political change of the 1990s swept away the white-minority government, brought Nelson Mandela's ANC to power and shattered the town's sheltered existence. The battalion was disbanded in 1993 and a number of the soldiers left Pomfret along with their families.Many of the men of Angolan heritage waived their right to be incorporated into the re-formed South African army in return for a significant cash handout worth R385000 in today's terms.Gradually families who had contributed to the small community began to drift away and the town started its slide into decline. By the 2000s, the government had signalled its intention to close the base in Pomfret and to relocate the remaining families. But a hard core of former servicemen refused to budge."We arrived here with many promises. Then the new government wanted us to go, leaving us without a future. Why should we leave our homes?" asked Lourenco.The police left the town, homes were ransacked and the hospital was trashed. In 2014 the power supply to the town was cut. Now there's water only once a week.Only one school remains open to serve the entire town, educating pupils to the age of 18.Antonio Isaac, an 18-year-old relative of a 32 Battalion fighter, said: "Staying here is useless for me. It's not a good place; after school, I will go."Many of those who opted to stay feel stranded between South Africa, where their service is scorned, and Angola, where they are seen as traitors."Angolans say we killed them. The ANC here thinks we killed their fighters," said Alexander Joaquim, a 74-year-old veteran of 32 Battalion."What are we supposed to do now?' 