For once, the critical tools turn out to be pleasingly lo-fi. Research from Australia suggests that brainpower in the over-50s, for instance, can be improved by 45 minutes of exercise a week.The University of Canberra report looked at dozens of previous studies, finding that even one session of moderate aerobic and resistance activity is enough to enhance alertness, decision making and memory.And although previous research had found benefits from aerobic exercises such as swimming, cycling, jogging or fast walking, the new analysis was the first to identify the role in boosting brain function played by resistance training, such as weights or core strength activity.And the news about brain function - how it deteriorates, how memory loss can be delayed or, better still, stopped in its tracks, often by simple but effective ways - keeps coming.Scientists have shown that you can boost your memory by "engaging the visual part of your brain", that a glass of beetroot juice can help stave off Alzheimer's disease, and that clearing your mind is the most effective thing you can do to improve your golf swing.A post-lunch nap can prevent your brain from ageing, but a post-lunch cup of tea can disrupt a good night's sleep, which is essential to brain health, especially in the over-50s.Researchers from Cornell University, New York, found a link between a fibre-rich diet and Alzheimer's. Fibre triggers the production of a fatty acid which is thought to block the enzymes involved in dementia.Most of us worry about mental decline as we age. But concerns over high levels of stress causing anxiety and depression are also rising. No wonder we should want to protect the brain cells we have."Prevention being better than cure is true for the brain," says Gareth Cuttle, neuroscience project manager at the Royal College of Psychiatrists in the UK. This is especially so when it comes to the damage caused by intangibles such as the pathological effect of emotions."When you keep your brain healthy and fit, you are more able to weather the effect of social and psychological events, and less likely to suffer the impact of depression and anxiety," he says.So, what are the best ways to shore up your neurons? Try these five tips from scientists working on the frontline of research. Really, it's a no-brainer.GET BRAIN-FITDavid Reynolds, chief scientific officer at Alzheimer's Research UK, says: "Exercising doesn't have to mean spending lots of time in the gym. The best way is to find something that you enjoy. A brisk walk, a game of tennis or going swimming can all form part of an active lifestyle."However, a walk is better for the brain than a spin on the bicycle, because the impact of the foot hitting the ground sends backward-flowing pressure waves up the arteries, helping blood circulation to the brain.GO FOR PROMOTIONLinda Clare, a professor at the University of Exeter, UK, has found that you can prep yourself in midlife for older age by taking on stimulating activities, such as leadership roles or further training to stretch your brain.People with higher levels of "cognitive reserve" are more likely to stay mentally fit for longer, making the brain more resilient to dementia.MOVE TO THE COUNTRYPollution from car fumes and power stations could increase the risk of dementia by 92%, according to a study in the journal Translational Psychiatry.Microscopic particles generated by fossil fuels may be inhaled directly into the brain, where an anti-inflammatory response could - over time - worsen Alzheimer's disease.DO SOMETHING NEWTaking up a new hobby when you retire is a good idea, says Cuttle. "Mental challenges are good - plus anything that broadens the mind, such as travelling, learning to paint or draw, or learning a new language."DO THE SUDOKU ... THEN HIT THE PLAYSTATIONYou need to challenge and stimulate the brain, Cuttle says. "That means puzzles, jigsaws, crosswords, sudoku ... but it needs to be a mixture. Don't keep doing the same thing."People of all ages can benefit from video games, too - "especially those which challenge your perception of space and force you to navigate through an environment, such as Minecraft".Game on, then. The Daily Telegraph