Briefing Parliament s Sports and Recreation portfolio committee on Wednesday Jordaan also disputed allegations that Baxter demanded that his son Lee should be appointed as the national team s goalkeeper coach. Did Baxter make a demand that [his son must be a goalkeeper coach]? No... Is Baxter getting R1 million a month? No. Is Baxter getting more than Shakes Mashaba? No said Jordaan. Jordaan's claim would suggest that Baxter is either earning the same or less than the R583,333 per month that was earned by Mashaba before his unceremonious departure in December. Mashaba's lawyer Claudio Bollo revealed the former coach's salary at his CCMA hearing. Mashaba has taken the matter of his dismissal to court and his case has not yet been finalised.Baxter was announced as the new Bafana Bafana coach earlier this month. He is taking over from Shakes Mashaba who was fired in December last year after he fell out of favour with SAFA top brass. In the briefing both Jordaan and SAFA CEO Dennis Mumble flatly refused to give the exact amount paid to Baxter despite numerous pleas from DA MP Tsepo Mhlongo. We have not published any salaries of any of our staff including the former coach. What you read in the papers .. they are throwing around figures that have no basis in reality said Mumble. He said Baxter s salary was a contractual matter and that the two parties had signed a confidentiality clause. Jordaan said MPs who wanted to view Baxter s salary could visit SAFA House and sign a non disclosure agreement before seeing the new coach s package. The two were responding to Mhlongo who said Mashaba s salary was known to the public. [In their presentation SAFA is] talking about transparency and accountability and I fail to understand when we ask about the present national coach that you don t get actual figures said Mhlongo. He said he understood the clause but they still needed to know the actual salary of the new coach. Jordaan also flatly declined to answer questions around Mashaba s departure saying he could only brief either the chair or the committee during a closed meeting. But I think there are other issues that we don t want to talk about but we can brief you privately on the kind of problem that arose. "You always have to look at your players and the best interest of your players and ...what issues they have he said. He said SAFA took time to appoint a new coach because the top three coaches it had approached were all employed and had to serve notice with their clubs. - TMG Digital/TimesLIVE