Downs (51 points) were held to a 2-2 draw at home by Platinum Stars surely making it advantage Wits (54 points) to earn their first league title in a 96-year history.Cape Town City in third place on 49 points are still in the running but need a win at home against Free State Stars on Friday night to remain in contention.The PSL is set for a crazy finish. TMG Digital looks at the four matches remaining in the run-ins of the top three teams in one of the most tightly-contested championships since Pirates nicked the trophy on the final day of the 2010/11 season:BIDVEST WITS FINAL FOUR GAMES (54 points from 26 games)Home v Maritzburg United (May 7)A short while ago this would have been a gimme three points for Wits but Maritzburg are vastly improved under caretaker-coach Fadlu Davids and have won four of their last five matches. They look more compact and have found their scoring touch. It will be a hard afternoon for The Clever Boys.Away v Free State Stars (May 10)The last thing Wits need at this stage is to meet their bogey side away from home who are fighting for survival at the foot of the table. There is no doubt that Wits have the quality to outshine Stars but wins in Bethlehem have been exceptionally rare down the years.Wits have not won any of their last five trips to Goble Park and have just two wins in their previous 13. Stars position in third-last place is becoming ever more desperate and they will be up for this one.Home v Polokwane City (May 17)This should be a home banker against an organised but ultimately limited Polokwane side. City did win at Wits in 2014 but then a year later were thumped 5-0 in their previous visit. The teams played to a hard-fought 0-0 draw in the reverse fixture this campaign.Away v Kaizer Chiefs (May 27)Wits close their season with a short trip to meet Chiefs who are likely to be pushing for a top three finish and African club competition qualification to take something from what is most likely to be another season without silverware. This will be a tough game for The Clever Boys if they need to go to FNB Stadium and get a win.MAMELODI SUNDOWNS LAST FOUR GAMES (51 points from 26 games)Away v Orlando Pirates (May 7)Pirates have improved with just two defeats in 12 league and cup games under new coach Kjell Jonevret but as was displayed in their defeat against Wits on Thursday night they are defensively frail and there will be plenty of opportunities for Sundowns to win this game.It is just whether they can take them on the day. This is a huge game in the championship race if only for Downs and not Pirates.Home v Baroka FC (May 10)Baroka might be battling for survival but the gulf in class between the teams is vast and with Sundowns having home advantage it is hard to see anything other than a Brazilians victory. They claimed a narrow 1-0 win in the reverse fixture in December.Home v Maritzburg United (May 17)As mentioned above Maritzburg are a new team under Davids and will definitely give Sundowns a run for their money. But they also have a poor record against the Tshwane side with just a single win in their 10 previous visits to Pretoria and no wins home or away in their last eight meetings.Away v Highlands Park (May 27)Highlands could conceivably be already relegated by the time these sides meet but assuming they are not will be fighting for their lives. Sundowns must make the easy journey to Tembisa and will be confident of going some way to repeating their 5-0 victory against their fellow Gauteng side in November.CAPE TOWN CITY S LAST FOUR GAMES (49 points from 26 games)Home v Free State Stars (May 5)City were poor in their 1-0 loss at Maritzburg United on Monday and lacked the usual intensity we have seen in their play this season. They will expect to regain that at Athlone Stadium on a good surface hoping only that the wind does not play a major factor.Stars have a draw and four defeats from their last five games and are now in serious danger of the drop.Away v SuperSport United (May 9)City must likely win all four of their remaining games to have a shot at the Absa Premiership title and it is a big ask for them to get something at SuperSport. Matsatsantsa have not been in the greatest form but can be as good as anybody on their day. And they will also be desperate to get revenge for their December loss in the Telkom Knockout final.Home v Lamontville Golden Arrows (May 17)Arrows can be a tough nut but if City play to the best of their abilities the Cape side should have too much for the visitors. Arrows have won just one of their last nine away games and have been beaten badly in a number of those.Away v Polokwane City (May 27)A tough trip to quite literally the other end of the country for Eric Tinkler s side who played their very first game in the club s history against Polokwane in August last year. They won 2-0 on that occasion.Polokwane are likely to have sealed a top eight place by the time this game is played and could have nothing to play for.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport