At the weekend the search for three-year-old Courtney Pieters from Elsies River was called off when her body was found in an open field in Epping Industria in Cape Town.Imraahn Mukaddam chairman of the Elsies River Community Policing Forum dispelled reports that Courtney's mother left her in the care of her six-year-old sibling.Mukaddam said Juanita Pieters had asked their tenant who had been living with them for two years to watch the children when she stepped out for a short while. The same man has been arrested for her murder. In fact the suspect was part of the search party who found her body said Mukaddam.Here are 10 recent cases that have sparked a public outcry:1. Lindokuhle Kota 2 from Khayelitsha - murdered in MayNtuthuzelo Mayekiso 25 appeared in Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court in Cape Town on May 9 for the murder of his two-year-old child. State prosecutor Manelisi Macaba said he had been sent to reform school for an earlier offence.2. Courtney Pieters 3 from Elsies River - murdered in MayAfter an extensive search by community members Courtney's body was found in a field on Saturday. A 40-year-old man - believed to be a boarder with the family - was arrested on Sunday night in Elsies River. He is set to appear in court.3. Iyapha Yamile 4 from Khayelitsha - murdered in AprilIyapha's mutilated body was found in a communal toilet and it is believed that she was murdered during a gang ritual the Weekend Argus reported.4. Natalie Baartman 5 from Syferfontein - murdered in FebruaryNatalie's half-naked body was found in a field near her Syferfontein home in February. The suspect lives close to her parents' home Algoa FM reported.5. Stacha Arendse 11 from Tafelsig - murdered in MarchStacha's body was found in Mitchells Plain. A 23-year-old man was arrested and the community tried to burn his house down. People Against Gangsterism and Drugs (Pagad) clashed with police and two people were arrested for public violence.6. Rene Tracy Roman 13 from Lavender Hill - murdered in March A 50-year-old man led police to the scene of her decomposing body. After his arrest hundreds of residents turned on the man.7. Franziska Bl chliger 16 from Kalk Bay - murdered 2016The trial of Howard Oliver has started in the Western Cape High Court. Bl chliger was attacked robbed and killed after she had gone for a run in Tokai forest.8. Sinoxolo Mafevuka 19 from Khayelitsha - murdered 2016The trial of cousins Athabile and Xoliswa Mafilika was due to start in the Western Cape High Court on Monday but was postponed. Mafevuka was found dead in a communal toilet about 150m from her home in the SST informal settlement. She was half-naked and her head had been shoved into a toilet bowl.9. Karabo Mokoena 22 Johannesburg - murdered in April It is believed that Mokoena's body was doused with petrol a tyre was then placed around her neck and set alight. Her boyfriend has been arrested in connection with her murder.10. Candice Alberts 32 from Slangrivier - murdered in AprilA policeman allegedly confessed to her murder the Cape Times reported. The newspaper reported that her body had ''multiple stab wounds'' and she could have been strangled too.