1) Lions on the loose!Mpumalanga was on high alert this week after five lions decided to take a trip out of the Kruger National Park on Monday. Four of the five lions were recaptured the next day in some sugar can fields in the Mananga area, though not before some cattle were attacked. Rangers are still searching for the lone lion that may have moved even further away from the area or made its way back into the park. 2) Lion attacks keeper during circus showOver in France, a lion turned on its keeper in the middle of a circus show. A video that was released showed the lion lockings its jaws around its keeper's throat and dragging him around a circus ring, while parents scrambled to get their screaming children away from the scene. The keeper survived while the lion will get back to work one he recovers.WATCH the video and read the full story here. 3) WTF! Massive snake takes a slither across a golf courseA new kind of slithering hazard was spotted on Zimbali s golf course on Tuesday after course staff discovered a large python on a fairway. After checking out the 8th hole the snake disappeared into the rough.WATCH the video here. 4) Tiny baby buffalo shows elephant who's boss Just because you're tiny doesn't mean you can be pushed around, as a baby buffalo made very clear to a much larger elephant. In a video captured in the Kruger Park, the littlest buffalo is seen charging the surprised elephant that backed off quickly.WATCH the video here. 5) Woman wakes up to find a black mamba by her bedA Durban woman's afternoon nap was rudely interrupted when she discovered a black mamba next to her bed. The snake took a peek over the bed then went to hide in her cupboard.WATCH the video, see the pictures and read the full story here. 6) Bear chases mountain biker during downhill run Two cyclists had a close call when a bear decided to join them on their ride down a mountain path. Helmet cam footage by Dusan Vin k caught the moment the bear charges onto the path then follows the other cyclist down the path.WATCH the video here