Due to Curwin Bosch's unexpected success Lambie wasn't missed but with the France test series just under a month away Lambie is expected to play a key role while his Bulls contemporary Handre Pollard convalesces from his ankle injury.With the Sharks having dropped just one game in Lambie's absence the 34-29 loss to the Lions on April Fool's Day the 26-year-old has been happy with what he saw from the sidelines but is raring to have a go at a side that nearly pulled his team's pants down on March 18. There've been some good weeks and not so good weeks but all in all I've been pleased with how the side has been tracking " He said."We had a really nice win against the Western Force and we were disappointed not to have secured the bonus point."We created enough opportunities to give ourselves a chance. At this stage we want to build some nice momentum before the June break because we've got a few tough games ahead Lambie said. If we can put in some good performances we can put ourselves in a decent position ahead of the international window. Lambie is one of four changes made by Sharks coach Robert du Preez with the make-up of the starting 15 looking like a side that takes the Southern Kings seriously.In the corresponding fixture which the Sharks won 19-17 a green horn like Benhard Janse van Rensburg were given a run and his inexperience was brutally exposed.Franco Marais Lwazi Mvovo and Tendai Beast Mtawarira are the players who make their way back into the starting 15 after taking a break last week.Du Preez knows his team have to take control of the game before Deon Davids's side drag them into an arm-wrestle. Former Sharks and Stormers flyhalf Lionel Cronje has been ruled fit for the game. The Kings are a really good side if you look at the individuals they have in that team. They've got some very good rugby players and Lionel Cronje has been playing very well. All the guys who played here may have a point to prove Du Preez said. Chris Cloete is tough on the ball and we have to eliminate him as a threat at the breakdown but we'll play our own game."It's going to be really tough there but we're playing some very good rugby and we're going down there to do a job and that's to bring back the four points. Southern Kings: 15 Masixole Banda 14 Wandile Mjekevu 13 Berton Klaasen 12 Luzuko Vulindlu 11 Makazole Mapimpi 10 Lionel Cronje (captain) 9 Louis Schreuder 8 Andisa Ntsila 7 Tyler Paul 6 Chris Cloete 5 Wilhelm van der Sluys 4 Irne Herbst 3 Ross Geldenhuys 2 Martin Bezuidenhout 1 Schalk van der Merwe.Replacements: 16 Kurt Haupt/Tango Balekile 17 Chris Heiberg 18 Dayan van der Westhuizen 19 Lubabalo Mtyanda 20 Stefan Willemse 21 Johan Steyn 22 Pieter-Steyn de Wet 23 Nicolaas Hanekom.Sharks: 15 Rhyno Smith 14 Jacobus van Wyk 13 Lukhanyo Am 12 Jeremy Ward 11 Lwazi Mvovo 10 Patrick Lambie (captain) 9 Michael Claassens 8 Daniel du Preez 7 Jean-Luc du Preez 6 Philip van der Walt 5 Ruan Botha 4 Etienne Oosthuizen 3 Coenie Oosthuizen 2 Franco Marais 1 Tendai Mtawarira.Replacements: 16 Mahlatse Ralepelle 17 Thomas du Toit 18 Lourens Adriaanse 19 Stephan Lewies 20 Lubabalo Mtembu 21 Jacobus Reinach 22 Garth April 23 Sbu Nkosi. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport