After months of anticipation‚ the tripartite alliance’s political council has finally met a week after President Zuma axed South African Communist Party (SACP) general secretary Blade Nzimande from his Cabinet without consultation. The African National Congress‚ along with alliance partners the SACP‚ the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) and South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) are said to be currently deliberating on the manner in which Zuma has handled his administrative duties and for the call for him to step down. “As we all know‚ there have been a number of different issues raised by various alliance partners in the public domain‚ i.e. when Cosatu called for the President to step down and raising questions as to how the alliance works. There are issues that are being put on the table as we speak [but] I can’t give you comment beyond that and I’m not going to give you any sense of how the discussions are going‚” said ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte. She was briefing members of the media outside the party’s headquarters‚ Luthuli House‚ in Johannesburg on Thursday. “The format that the [alliance] political council takes is that each alliance partner puts forward issues and then we have a discussion after that based on what matters have been raised by each one of us. The meeting is running extremely well and there is a good mood in the meeting‚ there’s a mood of listening and raising issues very honestly‚” she said. “We are all committed to ensuring that we walk out of this meeting with the alliance intact and certainly that is the spirit of the meeting. This is not a meeting to dismantle the alliance‚ it’s a meeting to look at how we deal with the problems that we have and to strengthen the alliance‚” Duarte further stated. This meeting takes place after tensions rose between the ANC and Cosatu‚ after Cosatu first publicly called for Zuma to step down in May. Cosatu’s call came after the president was booed‚ heckled and prevented from addressing workers during the federation’s main May Day rally in Bloemfontein. The SACP and Cosatu - which have both banned Zuma from addressing their activities - have said they are now in a position to explain why the embattled president needs to vacate his position as the head of state. The alliance council comprises of six national officials from the ANC‚ SACP‚ Cosatu and Sanco. It is understood that the meeting will go on until Friday.