The ANC, as the comrades are wont to say, has issues with democracy. In fact it is scared of democracy. It finds the notion of people being in charge - deciding their own destiny - a daunting prospect. The organisation - the leadership that is - is happier and at ease when it is in control of the process. As party veterans like to say, the movement should give direction. It is often forgotten that it is this desire for central control that bestowed an untried and flawed Jacob Zuma on an unsuspecting public. Zuma was minding his own business in KwaZulu-Natal 20 years ago when Thabo Mbeki, newly minted ANC president, decided to anoint him as his deputy at the Mafikeng conference, in order to forestall attempts by some delegates who preferred Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Zuma, who probably would have been satisfied with premier of KwaZulu-Natal, now happily found himself a heartbeat away from the presidency. And things haven't turned out well. He's gone on the rampage, brushing Mbeki, his mentor, aside and, like a kid in a candy shop, blithely looting everything in sight - leaving all of us in quite a state. The ANC is now seeking a replacement for Zuma and a record number of individuals have indicated their intention to vie for the position, which is a good thing. But not according to the ANC, it seems. It wants to control the process. I wanted to say it's a Stalinist practice, but I won't. Such habits die hard. First the organisation imposed a moratorium on campaigning for the presidency until a word from on high had decided it was OK. In other words, members could talk about anything except the presidency or their preferred candidate. Democracy was on suspension or, at the very least, it was a curtailment of freedom of speech - the bedrock of democracy. It was also silly because everybody knew that the presidential campaign was uppermost in people's minds. Presidential politics became the elephant in the room. The essence of politics was out of bounds to political activists. To underscore the ridiculousness of the moratorium, Bathabile Dlamini acted as though she hadn't received the memo and campaigned for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. When the moratorium was lifted, Dlamini-Zuma was in front. Now she and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa are regarded as frontrunners in a field that includes Zweli Mkhize, Baleka Mbete, Jeff Radebe, Lindiwe Sisulu and Mathews Phosa. Some reports suggest that ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe also fancies his chances. The flaw in the process that gave us President Zuma was that only two candidates, each with his own shortcomings, were presented to ANC delegates in Polokwane. Mbeki never made a plausible case for election, given that he had already served two terms as president. Some suspected that, should he win, he would change the constitution to allow himself a third term, or ad infinitum รก la Robert Mugabe. And so Zuma won and proceeded to wreak havoc in the country. The ANC is not as strong electorally as it was 10 years ago, and may even lose the elections in two years. But the fact that so many candidates have thrown their hats in the ring should be welcomed. It's good for democracy. It allows delegates a wider field to choose from, and the candidate who eventually emerges victorious will have undergone some thorough scrutiny. That's how leaders are made. But now it seems there are attempts to stop, or interfere with the process. Some party bigwigs met in Nelspruit a few days ago at the invitation of Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza. The intention was to come up with a candidate who would unite or appeal to all the party's warring factions. Well, I have news for the party:such a candidate doesn't exist. It's only autocratic regimes that impose a leader, often by force, on an unwilling public. It's not clear what was decided at that Nelspruit confab, but Mabuza is now running around promoting Mkhize's candidacy. If I were Mkhize, I'd run a mile. I wouldn't touch Mabuza with a barge pole. Mabuza, who's been a staunch supporter - a sycophant - of Zuma, now wants to present himself as some sort of a kingmaker. Apparently he also has ambitions for a top six position, or even the deputy presidency. Laughable, but this is the ANC in the age of Zuma. Mabuza is unfit for any position, let alone deciding who should be the country's president. The man is as corrupt as they come. His saving grace is that Nelspruit is off the beaten track and therefore does not always enjoy the spotlight or attention of the national media. One can understand people being worried about the likelihood of violence at the elective conference in December. That's a legitimate concern. But keeping the peace is the job of security agencies. It's no reason to stop the march of democracy. And how, one wonders, will they convince the other candidates, especially those in pole position, to stand aside and allow one of their foes to claim the mantle unchallenged? And why would their supporters, who would have invested so much in their respective candidates, put up with such an arrogant imposition? This is a non-starter, whichever way one looks at it. Democracy cannot be treated as some sort of an arranged marriage. It must be allowed to flourish. It can be messy at times, but it's the only system that works. The comrades would do well to embrace it wholeheartedly.