Plus-size model and photographer Lesego Legobane, aka Thick Leeyonce, garnered international applause for her sharp retort to a body-shamming meme in which her photo had been used. Posted on Twitter, the meme juxtaposed a picture of a thin, toned black women in a bikini with one of Legobane in a swimsuit. The caption was "Girls that I like vs Girls that like me". Legobane's spicy clapback to the culprit: "I don't like you." We chat to her about being a body positive role model: How and when did you start modelling? I took a lot of self portraits that attracted many clients who found me on social media. I started taking it seriously two years ago. When and how did you become aware of the body positivity movement? It started when I got an influx of really touching messages from women who shared their stories of struggling with self love with me. I realised that me loving myself on social media had a positive effect on others. Who inspires you, and why? My mother, Lerato. She's a hard-working, single parent who made a lot of things happen with very few resources. She oozes confidence and is very sure of herself; it's very admirable. You have faced some criticism for "thin-shaming". How do you respond to this criticism? There was a tweet from 2013, which I posted when I was 19, that was disturbing. I'm glad I'm no longer in the space of being resentful towards smaller women because they are more celebrated and accepted in society. I've grown to appreciate every body, whether small or big. Is there work for plus-size models in South Africa? Barely. What advice would you give to young South African women who are insecure about their bodies? Understand that you are different, and that's what makes you beautiful. You might not be beautiful like the next woman, but you're beautiful like you. Learn to love the body you're in, while you're working for the body that you want. Self-love is liberation. How do you respond to people who claim that plus-sized models are "unhealthy"? Mind your own health.