Yegas Naidoo stood in her 500-bottle wine cellar on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast this week, fresh from paying R9,000-plus for a single bottle of wine at an auction last month. Yet Naidoo insisted she was not "a serious collector". She admitted that the money she spent on a magnum of La Motte Private Cellar 2007 at the Nederburg Charity Auction was for a good cause, rather than a good investment. But it was her brother-in-law, Harald Bresselschmidt, chef-owner of Cape Town fine dining restaurant Aubergine, who was "a clever collector" who bought at the right time and used his collection to refinance new purchases. According to the most recent Knight Frank Luxury Investment Index, the fruit of the vine has become liquid gold. The index tracks the price growth of the global luxury investment sector and has found that wine is now the most collectable luxury asset in the world, having knocked the socks off classic cars and outstripped art, jewellery and furniture as the fastest-growing investment. The latest report shows that while wine values grew by an incredible 24% in 2016, classic cars showed only a 9% increase. French Bordeaux and Burgundy wines are in great demand, but South African wines are becoming more collectable. At this year's Nederburg auction, a Meerlust Bordeaux Blend 1978 took the new record price of R21,300 a litre, and half a dozen bottles of 1957 Chateau Libertas went for R55,000. In total, wine worth more than R6.34-million was sold, 70% of it to South Africans. Roland Peens, director of online retailer the Wine Cellar, the largest private wine storage company in the country, said there was a growing market of people interested in trading in fine wines. Ten years ago the company had about 400 customers, he said. Today it had about 2,500. Jimmy Setagane, 30, a first-time investor in wine, is learning all he can about his new "passion". His first purchase was in September when he bought six bottles of Thelema Cabernet Sauvignon for R1,365. "I was looking for an investment opportunity," said Setagane, a crisis councillor in George in the Western Cape. "My wine is stored at the Wine Cellar. My friends asked me how I could buy something that I don't have with me. And if I buy it, they say, surely I have to drink it? I don't care. One day it will be profitable for me."