1. Beauty Factory Freshly Made For You Body Mousse This body cream looks good enough to eat with its fluffy, creamy texture that is silky and hydrating without becoming oily. Price: R129.90. 2. Skoon Glowdrops Concentrate Add luminosity to your skin even in winter with these fragrant drops containing orange blossom, vitamin E and phytosqualane that will hydrate your skin for the ultimate radiance. Price: R525 for 15ml. 3. Optiphi Intense Retinol Serum I put the fate of my skin in the hands of this product when I tried retinol - and it never failed. No sensitivity or irritation, this is my pigmentation secret weapon. Price: R1,277 for 30ml. 4. Red Dane The Great Moisturiser One thing men often overlook is moisturising and the Great Moisturiser is packed with oils such as jojoba, grapeseed, vitamin E, shea butter and aloe vera gel that not only hydrate and soothe the skin but target ageing too. Price: R590 for 150ml. 5. Aloe Unique Age Defying Night Cream Like a drink of water for your skin, this night cream is super hydrating and replenishes lost skin nutrients as well as boosting collagen production. Price: R155 for 50ml. 6. Lulu & Marula Soothing Hand & Foot Balm A gentle and hydrating scrub that will keep your hands, feet and any dry patches in check - with the added bonus that its scent is a tropical heaven of coconut oil, lemon and juniper. Price: R270 for 100ml. 7. Skin Creamery Facial Cleansing Powder This texture-morphing powder-to-paste cleanser gives the skin a matte, refined finish - using clay as an ingredient and polishing with baobab fruit powder. Price: R260 for 40g. 8. Suki Suki Naturals Miraculous Oil Aptly named miraculous for a reason, this oil can be used on both hair and skin due to its all-natural ingredients. It absorbs quickly into the skin and leaves hair non-greasy. The dropper bottle also makes application a breeze. Price: R180 for 100ml. 9. SIX Eye and Lip Soft Exfoliator This is winter's SOS for lips. It targets chapped lips with a creamy formula that gently removes dead, dry skin, leaving softer, hydrated lips. It's also eye-friendly, so try it out to smooth dry patches. Price: R387 for 30ml. 10. Ordinary Extra Exfoliator A gentle exfoliator that can be used on your face and hands - skin cannot help but stay soft and polished with this product. Price: R285.