Call it destiny, call it keen business sense, call it whatever. I call it inevitable. A little more than a decade after taking a break from making new music and non-stop touring, Fokofpolisiekar are back. And they have a brand-new album to challenge the way we think, the way we act and the way we talk. Selfmedikasie has jumped into the top 10 on the iTunes chart for South African albums and this week hit the top spot on Play Store. Fourteen years ago the group took the country by storm, playing gigs night after night. Then in 2007 they announced a sort of hiatus, and other projects took centre stage. In the space of four years, Fokofpolisiekar had garnered a hardcore following thanks to their unique sound, alternative-as-hell punk rock with a splash of thrash. From the very beginning the honest and controversial lyrics and larger-than-life stage presence dominated their brand. But money was tight and the daily partying and performing was taking a massive toll. It couldn't last. No one can party that hard and survive for long. And Fokofpolisiekar were no exception. Between 2009 and now, they performed together at shows and festivals here and there but the group's members focused on other projects, offshoots such as aKing, Van Coke Kartel and Die Heuwels Fantasties. WATCH | The music video for Dis in my bloed, baby from Fokofpolisiekar's new album But thanks to a crowd-funding initiative that raised more than R1-million, they are back with a new album that asks even harder questions of white culture. "With the crowd-funding we hit the dream goal in like nine days," said Wynand Myburgh, the group's bassist-cum-manager. "We had tried a few times to get together to start working on a new album, but everyone was just too busy. But then we had the bucks and suddenly it was like, 'Oh fuck, now we better produce.'" Said frontman Francois van Coke: "It was important to us that we also liked the new album. And we do." Having played and written music together for the other projects, the writing process for Selfmedikasie went smoothly. When rhythm guitarist Hunter Kennedy put together the lyrics for Fokofpolisiekar's first collection of tracks nearly 15 years ago, it is doubtful he had any idea his words would become part of some of the most popular, and controversial, anthems in South African rock 'n roll history. Nor perhaps did he or any of the other band members realise just how easily the music would find a home in the hearts and minds of thousands of young white South Africans. The only hint that the Bellville boys have grown up is in the new songs. We hear more about being a father, dealing with relationships. But true to their roots, difficult questions are asked of white Afrikaans culture. "Home is where your people are, My people have no homeland, What are we still doing here?" they ask on one track. "One of Hunter's greatest abilities has always been in how honest he is when writing the songs. It's not about, like, saying something to be cool or whatever. And that I think is what makes Fokof special," said drummer Jaco Venter. Fokof has always been relatable to their fans. They sang about issues that hit close to home and were relevant for the time. With the new album, the challenge was to keep that honesty. "It was almost as if we built ourselves criteria," said Venter. "We didn't want it to sound like our other projects. The window for what it could be was smaller, so we sort of had to limit ourselves to the most common element between us and then also imagine what it would be like 10 years later." Kennedy said the chief consideration was that the music "had to be Fokof, which has a unique framework compared to other bands, in terms of the lyrics. It's by far the most alternative voice in Afrikaans music out there." The new songs address a range of sociopolitical issues facing white South Africans and the "white guilt" created by apartheid. Like in previous albums, the Calvinist upbringing of many Afrikaans kids is a theme woven through the songs. "White tears, white guilt hangs like a neo-liberal guillotine, Please decolonise me," they sing in Dis in My Bloed, Baby. These issues are somewhat difficult to swallow for the older generation of white Afrikaners especially, and earned the band condemnation from conservatives. "One thing that was important to us when we started," Venter said, "and is still that way today, is to give the alternative to Afrikaans people and to say, 'Look you don't have to associate yourself with all the shit from the past and you can, if you want to, raise your flag and say I think differently to everyone else.'" While they admit to making a few changes to the lyrics to encompass everyone's views, band members are all on the same wavelength in terms of what they believe and what they want to tell the world through their music. For Fokofpolisiekar, arguably one of South Africa's most successful rock groups, the new album is the highlight of their crazy journey so far. Through clouds of cigarette smoke infused with the reek of sweat, beer and vomit I could just make out the five rockers as they walked onto the stage at the Mossel Bay town hall. The music started and the crush of human bodies pushed relentlessly towards the stage. If you didn’t push back, you’d fall and the beast would swallow you whole. The music was loud. Very loud. But it couldn’t drown out the voices of 300 or so delirious fans. They were all screaming the same words, fighting to be heard. And as suddenly as it started, it was over. Shirt ripped, slightly deaf, ecstatic and bleeding, I left. It was just another average night out with the Afrikaans rockers from Bellville, Fokofpolisiekar. Fast-forward nearly a decade to a recent Saturday night and I find myself watching Fokof prepare for their show from the wings of the stage at the Good Luck Bar in Johannesburg. Can the guys still whip a crowd into a frenzy by simply showing up? It is clear that they can when the crowd starts chanting “Fokof, Fokof, Fokof!”, nearly drowning out the opening act. There is nothing in their onstage presence to suggest they are nearing their mid- 30s. It’s exactly how I remember it. Frontman Francois van Coke dives into the crowd seconds into the first song. The crowd loves it, they lose control, screaming, arms outstretched. Some not brave enough to enter the writhing mass of humanity in front of the stage crowd around the fringes, seeking a vantage point. They stand on tables or perch precariously on walls. It has been only a week since the release of Selfmedikasie, but everyone in the Good Luck Bar already knows every word of the new songs.